.TH MBeditviz 1 "29 April 2011" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBMBeditviz\fP - 3D visualization-based editing of swath bathymetry soundings.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBMBeditviz\fP [-I\fIdatalist\fP \fB-V -H\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fIOverview\fP

\fBMBeditviz\fP is an interactive 2D/3D visualization-based tool for editing swath 
bathymetry data. The bathymetry data from selected files are read into memory, gridded,
and displayed in the same 2D/3D visualization environment used by \fBMBgrdviz\fP. In
this environment, users can select arbitrary areas or regions. All of the soundings in
the selected areas are displayed in a 3D "cloud" that can be rotated, zoomed, and exaggerated.
These soundings can also be edited using the same edit mouse modes as in \fBMBedit\fP.
\fBMBeditviz\fP operates with "edit save files" (*.esf) in the same fashion as \fBMBedit\fP,
\fBmbclean\fP, and \fBmbareaclean\fP. To apply the edits in processing, simply run \fBmbprocess\fP
on a datalist referencing the relevant files.

\fIStarting Up\fP

The initial MBeditviz display shows a list of the swath files you have identified by using 
the "File->Open Swath File" menu item. The list has four columns. 
The first (left-most) column is either blank or shows "<locked>" or "<loaded>".
If a file is loaded for gridding and editing by this program, it shows as "<loaded>".
If a file is being edited or processed by another program, it shows as
"<locked>". Locked files cannot be opened for editing, and any file 
loaded for editing by \fBMBeditviz\fP will show as "locked" to other
programs. The second column is either blank or shows "<esf>". This indicates if
a file has been previously edited so that an edit save file already
exists. The third column indicates, if the file is loaded, whether asynchronous heading ("H"),
sonar depth ("S"), and attitude ("A") time series data have been loaded along with the 
swath bathymetry data. These asynchronous data are required in order to use \fBMBeditviz\fP
to assess time lag issues, but are not available for all datasets.
The fourth and fifth columns show the filename and the \fBMBIO\fP
format id, respectively.
Users can select one of the files in the available list. If the "Edit Selected File"
button is clicked, the selected file will be opened for editing (and any
file already loaded will be closed first). If the "Remove Selected File" 
button is selected, then the selected file will be removed from the available
list.


You can select some or all of the files in the list. 
When you click on the "View All Files" or the "View Selected Files", MBeditviz reads the 
specified files, loading all of the soundings into memory. The program then brings up a 
"Grid Parameters" dialog which suggests a grid cell size and shows the implied dimensions 
of a grid enclosing all of the data. The two issues to keep in mind are that you want the 
grid to be reasonably sized (dimensions <2500 or so on my laptop) and that no interpolation 
is applied in the gridding, so too small a grid cell size will leave gaps between soundings 
in the map view. When you click "Apply", MBeditviz grids the soundings, and then displays 
the grid using the same 2D/3D interface as MBgrdviz, including the navigation associated with
the selected swath files.

The navigation associated with the selected swath files will be displayed as well, and can
be selected or queried by setting the mouse mode to 

Data files that have been previously edited with \fBMBeditviz\fP, \fBMBedit\fP, \fBmbclean\fP, 
or \fBmbareaclean\fP will have two related ancilliary files with suffixes ".esf" and ".par".
The "*.esf" file is the edit save file containing all of the flag and unflag edit events 
generated for soundings in a data file. The "*.par" file is the processing parameter file
that contains all of the processing parameters and instructions to be applied by the program
\fBmbprocess\fP. \fBMBeditviz\fP will read and apply the pre-existing edit events as files
are read into memory. The initial gridded view of the bathymetry will reflect all of the
pre-existing edit events.

\fIDisplaying a "Sounding Cloud"\fP

Once you have an MBeditviz survey display, set the mouse mode to "Pick Area" and either use 
the left button to drag a square "region", or use the middle button to drag an arbitrarily 
oriented "area" (also, if an area is defined the right button decreases/increases the width 
of the area). Each time you define or change a picked region or area, MBeditviz will display 
the point cloud of soundings located in the region or area. Since \fBMBeditviz\fP also displays
the swath file navigation, users can also change the mouse mode to "Pick Nav" or "Pick Nav File"
and select portions of the navigation. In this case the sounding cloud will encompass all of
the data associated with the selected navigation. The 3Dsoundings view is manipulated
using the middle and right mouse buttons in either rotation mode or zoom/exagerate mode.

You can edit the soundings in the point cloud context using the left mouse button. The 
editing mouse modes work just like MBedit. The View menu in the 
point cloud display lets you show, or not show, the flagged soundings (which are displayed in red).

\fIApplying the Bathyemtry Edits\fP

When you dismiss the gridded view, the esf files of the affected files will be updated just 
as they are with MBedit. The program also modifies the \fBmbprocess\fP parameter file
for the input file by specifying the edit save file and setting the \fBmbprocess\fP mode to 
apply the edits when generating a processed swath output file. If no parameter file exists, 
\fBmbeditviz\fP creates one.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIdatalist\fP
.br
Sets an \fBMB-System\fP datalist file to be parsed on input for swath data files
to list as available for editing. 
This option is usually used when \fBMBeditviz\fP is started
automatically from some other process, such as \fBMBgrdviz\fP. 
.TP
.B \-V
Normally, \fBMBeditviz\fP outputs limited information to the stderr stream.  
If the \fB-V\fP flag is given, then \fBMBeditviz\fP works in a "verbose" mode and
outputs the program version being used, all error status messages, 
and a large amount of other information including all of the
beams flagged or zeroed.

.SH INTERACTIVE CONTROLS

.SH MOUSE ACTIONS

.SH KEYBOARD ACTIONS

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(l), \fBmbedit\fP(l), \fBmbprocess\fP(l) \fBmbset\fP(l)

.SH BUGS
This program is not done, nor is it adequately documented.

