.TH mbkongsbergpreprocess 1 "5 January 2013" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbkongsbergpreprocess\fP - performs preprocessing of data from third generation Kongsberg multibeam sonars (e.g. EM122, EM302, EM710).

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbkongsbergpreprocess\fP [\fB-A\fP \fB-C\fP \fB-D\fP\fIoutputdirectory\fP \fB-F\fP\fIformat\fP
\fB-I\fIfile \fB-O\fP\fIoutfile\fP \fB-SF\fP\fIdatatype/source\fP
\fB-T\fP\fItimelag\fP \fB-H -V\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbkongsbergpreprocess\fP reads data from a third generation
Kongsberg multibeam sonar (e.g. EM122, EM302, EM710), interpolates the
asynchronous navigation, heading, and attitude onto the multibeam data,
and writes a new file with that information correctly embedded
in the multibeam survey data. The input files may be in the vendor format
MBF_EM710RAW (format id 58) or the \fBMB-System\fP extended format
MBF_EM710MBA (format id 59); the output files will always be in
the \fBMB-System\fP extended format MBF_EM710MBA (format id 59).

Like most modern swath survey data streams, Kongsberg multibeam data
includes navigation, attitude, and heading data logged in separate
data records as output by the respective sensors. Since each of these
values is time stamped according to its origin rather than synced with
multibeam pings, these values are asynchronous relative to the survey
ping data. When multiple sources
of navigation, heading, and/or attitude have been recorded in
a data stream, \fBmbkongsbergpreprocess\fP allows the user to specify
which asynchronous data are extracted and interpolated onto the
survey data using the \fB-S\fP option.

This program allows the correction of a time latency
(or time lag)  error between the sonar data and the attitude and
navigation data using the \fB-T\fP option.

The format 58 files This program also creates four ancilliary files containing the full
asynchronous attitude, sonar depth, and heading data and the synchronous
attitude data in parallel with each output format 59 file.
These files are used,
when present, by \fBmbeditviz\fP to facillitate interactive analysis
of time lag issues. Each of these are
text files with white-space delimited columns; the first column
is always time in decimal unix seconds. These have the following
suffixes:
    asynchronous attitude (roll and pitch):	*.ata
    asynchronous heading:			*.ath
    asynchronous sonar depth:			*.ats
    synchronous attitude (roll and pitch):	*.sta

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-A
.br
This option causes the program to attempt to calculate reliable beam angles
through iterative raytracing to match the original bathymetry. This process
is very time consuming. At present, the simple calculation of beam angles
produces noisy values that in turn produce noisy bathymetry when the
soundings are recalculated by raytracing. Thus, if one needs to recalculate
bathymetry with a new model for the sound speed structure of the water
column (often called a sound velocity profile or SVP), the data should first
be preprocessed using the \fB-A\fP option.
.TP
.B \-C
.br
This option causes \fBmbkongsbergpreprocess\fP to print counts of the many
different data record types compising a Kongsberg data stream. The data record
counts are output for each file and as totals from all files processed.
.TP
.B \-D
\fIoutputdirectory\fP
.br
This option causes all format 59 output files to be placed in the specified directory
\fIoutputdirectory\fP rather than parallel to the original "raw" files.
.TP
.B \-F
\fIformat\fP
.br
Sets the data format used if the input is read from stdin
or from a file. If \fIformat\fP < 0, then the input file specified
with the \fB-I\fP option will actually contain a list of input swath sonar
data files. This program only reads third generation Kongsberg multibeam
format data files (\fBMBIO\fP formats 58 and 59).
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIinfile\fP
.br
Sets the input file path. If \fIformat\fP > 0 (set with the
\fB-f\fP option or \fBmbdefaults\fP) then the swath sonar data contained in \fIinfile\fP
is read and processed. If \fIformat\fP < 0, then \fIinfile\fP
is assumed to be an ascii file containing a list of the input swath sonar
data files to be processed and their formats.  The program will read
the data in each one of these files.
In the \fIinfile\fP file, each
data file should be followed by a data format identifier, e.g.:
 	datafile.all 58
 	datafile.all 58
.br
This program only reads third generation Kongsberg multibeam
format data files (\fBMBIO\fP formats 58 and 59).
.TP
.B \-O
\fIoutfile\fP
.br
This option causes \fBmbkongsbergpreprocess\fP to output all data to a single file
specified as \fIoutfile\fP. By default, the program creates output files for
each input file. If the \fB-D\fP\fIoutputdirectory\fP option is also used, then
the output file \fIoutfile\fP will be in \fIoutputdirectory\fP.
.TP
.B \-S
\fIdatatype/source\fP
.br
This option specifies which data records should be the source of the
navigation (\fIdatatype\fP = 1), heading (\fIdatatype\fP = 2), and
attitude (\fIdatatype\fP = 3) data that are interpolated onto the
survey ping times. In each case the \fIsource\fP value specifies
a data record type. The possibilities for Kongsberg data include:
     MB_DATA_NAV			12	/* Simrad, Reson 7k */
     MB_DATA_HEADING		17	/* Simrad, Hypack */
     MB_DATA_ATTITUDE		18	/* Simrad, Hypack, Reson 7k */
     MB_DATA_NAV1			28	/* ancillary nav system 1 */
     MB_DATA_NAV2			29	/* ancillary nav system 2 */
     MB_DATA_NAV3			30	/* ancillary nav system 3 */
     MB_DATA_ATTITUDE1		55	/* ancillary attitude system 1 */
     MB_DATA_ATTITUDE2		56      /* ancillary attitude system 2 */
     MB_DATA_ATTITUDE3		57	/* ancillary attitude system 3 */
.br
.TP
.B \-T
\fItimelag\fP
.br
This option specifies a \fItimelag\fP value in seconds to be applied
to the navigation and attitude data prior to it being merged with the
bathymetry. If \fItimelag\fP is a valid path to a file containing time
stamp and time lag pairs, then these data will be read and the time lag
applied to particular records will be interpolated by time.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose that one has collected a set of three Kongsberg EM122 data files named:
    0000_20111219_154640_METEOR_EM122.all
    0001_20111219_163703_METEOR_EM122.all
    0002_20111219_175708_METEOR_EM122.all
.br
First, we want to generate a "datalist" file referencing the raw survey files. The
following will suffice:
    /bin/ls -1 *all | awk '{print $1" 58"}' > datalist_raw.mb-1
.br
We want to use \fBmbkongsbergpreprocess\fP to gracefully interpolate the
asynchronous navigation, heading and attitude data onto the survey data and
to generate data files in the extended format (MBF_EM710MBA = 59). To learn
which potential sources of navigation, heading and attitude are available, use
\fBmbinfo\fP with the \fB-N\fP option:
    $ mbinfo -I 0000_20111219_154640_METEOR_EM122.all -N

The \fB-N\fP option causes \fBmbinfo\fP to generate a list of the data record
types read in the file at the end of the file statistics:
.br
    Swath Data File:      0000_20111219_154640_METEOR_EM122.all
    MBIO Data Format ID:  58
    Format name:          MBF_EM710RAW
    Informal Description: Kongsberg current multibeam vendor format
    Attributes:           Kongsberg EM122, EM302, EM710,
 			  bathymetry, amplitude, and sidescan,
 			  up to 400 beams, variable pixels, binary, Kongsberg.

    Data Totals:
    Number of Records:                         334
    Bathymetry Data (432 beams):
      Number of Beams:           144288
      Number of Good Beams:      129951     90.06%
      Number of Zero Beams:           0      0.00%
      Number of Flagged Beams:    14337      9.94%
    Amplitude Data (432 beams):
      Number of Beams:           144288
      Number of Good Beams:      129951     90.06%
      Number of Zero Beams:           0      0.00%
      Number of Flagged Beams:    14337      9.94%
    Sidescan Data (1024 pixels):
      Number of Pixels:          342016
      Number of Good Pixels:     289910     84.77%
      Number of Zero Pixels:          0      0.00%
      Number of Flagged Pixels:   52106     15.23%

    Navigation Totals:
    Total Time:             0.8327 hours
    Total Track Length:    13.6418 km
    Average Speed:         16.3823 km/hr ( 8.8553 knots)

    Start of Data:
    Time:  12 19 2011 15:46:27.537000  JD353 (2011-12-19T15:46:27.537000)
    Lon:   -11.562232000     Lat:    36.848179850     Depth:  4931.4829 meters
    Speed: 17.6040 km/hr ( 9.5157 knots)  Heading: 129.1900 degrees
    Sonar Depth:    5.6975 m  Sonar Altitude: 5025.2964 m

    End of Data:
    Time:  12 19 2011 16:36:25.308000  JD353 (2011-12-19T16:36:25.308000)
    Lon:   -11.489473500     Lat:    36.771997400     Depth:  3242.5244 meters
    Speed: 12.7800 km/hr ( 6.9081 knots)  Heading: 274.9200 degrees
    Sonar Depth:    6.4334 m  Sonar Altitude: 3236.0911 m

    Limits:
    Minimum Longitude:     -11.635798757   Maximum Longitude:     -11.391532562
    Minimum Latitude:       36.723994163   Maximum Latitude:       36.919907119
    Minimum Sonar Depth:     5.0135   Maximum Sonar Depth:     6.9798
    Minimum Altitude:     3175.1121   Maximum Altitude:     5027.8770
    Minimum Depth:        2391.9229   Maximum Depth:        5121.0713
    Minimum Amplitude:     -59.2000   Maximum Amplitude:      -9.1000
    Minimum Sidescan:      -90.1300   Maximum Sidescan:       -0.4700

    Data Record Type Notices:
    DN: 334 MB_DATA_DATA (ID=1): survey data
    DN: 1 MB_DATA_VELOCITY_PROFILE (ID=6): SVP
    DN: 1 MB_DATA_START (ID=10): Simrad start datagram
    DN: 1 MB_DATA_STOP (ID=11): Simrad stop datagram
    DN: 3023 MB_DATA_NAV (ID=12): Navigation record
    DN: 287 MB_DATA_RUN_PARAMETER (ID=13): Simrad runtime parameter datagram
    DN: 3022 MB_DATA_CLOCK (ID=14): Simrad clock datagram
    DN: 2964 MB_DATA_ATTITUDE (ID=18): Attitude record
    DN: 731 MB_DATA_SSV (ID=19): Surface sound speed record
    DN: 3022 MB_DATA_NAV3 (ID=30): Auxilliary nav system 3
    DN: 3023 MB_DATA_STATUS (ID=46): Status record
    DN: 2964 MB_DATA_ATTITUDE1 (55): ancillary attitude system 1
    DN: 1512 MB_DATA_ATTITUDE2 (56): ancillary attitude system 2

    Nonfatal Error Notices:
    EN: 20551 MB_ERROR_NO_DATA_REQUESTED (ID=-11): No data requested for buffer load

    Problem Notices:

This listing shows that the format 58 file includes
MB_DATA_NAV (\fIsource\fP = 12) and MB_DATA_NAV3 (\fIsource\fP = 30) records,
both of which include both position and heading data. Also included are three
sources of attitude data: MB_DATA_ATTITUDE (\fIsource\fP = 18),
MB_DATA_ATTITUDE1 (\fIsource\fP = 55), and MB_DATA_ATTITUDE2 (\fIsource\fP = 56).

To extract and use the default navigation, heading, and attitude data, the
following will suffice:
    mbkongsbergpreprocess -I datalist_raw.mb-1 -V

An equivalent command that explicitly specifies the default asynchronous data
sources using \fB-S\fP\fI1/source\fP for navigation, \fB-S\fP\fI2/source\fP for
heading, and \fB-S\fP\fI3/source\fP for attitude is:
    mbkongsbergpreprocess -I datalist_raw.mb-1 -V \fB-S\fP\fI1/12\fP \fB-S\fP\fI2/12\fP \fB-S\fP\fI3/18\fP

To interpolate navigation and heading from the secondary navigation source, use
    \fB-S\fP\fI1/30\fP \fB-S\fP\fI2/30\fP

To interpolate attitude from ancillary attitude system 2, use:
    \fB-S\fP\fI3/56\fP

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(l), \fBmbformat\fP(l), \fBmbinfo\fP(l)

.SH BUGS
Not true bugs. More like arachnids.
