.TH mbotps 1 "29 December 2010" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbotps\fP - Predicts tides using the OSU Tidal Prediction Software (OTPS) distribution.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbotps\fP [\fB-A\fP\fItideformat\fP \fB-B\fP\fIyear/month/day/hour/minute/second\fP
\fB-D\fP\fIinterval\fP \fB-E\fP\fIyear/month/day/hour/minute/second 
\fB-F\fP\fIformat\fP \fB-I\fP\fIdatalist.mb-1\fP 
\fB-M\fP \fB-O\fP\fIoutput\fP \fB-R\fP\fIlon/lat\fP \fB-V\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBMBotps\fP is a utility that predicts tides using the OTPSnc (OSU Tidal Prediction
Software) package that can be downloaded at: 
    http://www.coas.oregonstate.edu/research/po/research/tide/
The OTPSnc utilities are operated in a batch mode using command files with
a fairly arcane format. \fBMBotps\fP provides a command line interface that 
allows \fBMB-System\fP users to easily obtain tide models for specified locations
and times. \fBMBotps\fP is built during a normal installation of \fBMB-System\fP, 
but will work only if the OTPSnc package has been installed separately, the program 
\fBpredict_tide\fP is in the user's path, and the user has both read and write
permission in the directory containing the OTPSnc programs.

\fBMBotps\fP can be operated in two modes. First, users may use the \fB-R\fP,
\fB-B\fP, and \fB-E\fP options to specify a location and the beginning and end times of
a tidal model for that location. The \fB-D\fP option sets the time interval of values in 
the output tidal model, and the \fB-O\fP option sets the output tidal model filename.

Alternatively, instead of specifying a place and time range, the user may specify
one or more swath data files using the \fB-I\fP option. A tidal model is produced for
each swath file in which tidal values are calculated using the sonar navigation 
locations at intervals specified with the \fB-D\fP option, and if the \fB-M\fP option
is specified, the swath file's processing parameter file is modified so that \fBmbprocess\fP 
applies the tidal model during processing.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-A
\fItideformat\fP
.br
This option sets the tide format of the output text tide model files.
If \fItideformat\fP = 2 (the default), the tide is output in this format:
.br
 	year month day hour minute second tide
.br
where the tide value is in meters.
If \fItideformat\fP = 1, then the output format is:
.br
 	time_d tide
.br
where time_d is in seconds since January 1, 1970 and tide is in meters.
.TP
.B \-B
\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP
.br
This option sets the starting time for for the output tidal model.
.TP
.B \-D
\fIinterval\fP
.br
This option sets the time interval between tidal model values in seconds.
Default: 60 seconds.
.TP
.B \-E
\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP
.br
This option sets the ending time for the output tidal model
.TP
.B \-F
\fIformat\fP
.br
Sets the data format of the input swath data file specified with the
\fB-I\fP option. If \fIformat\fP < 0, then the input file specified
with the \fB-I\fP option will actually contain a list of input swath sonar
data files. This program uses the \fBMBIO\fP library and will read any 
swath sonar format with timestamps supported by \fBMBIO\fP. 
A list of the swath sonar data formats
currently supported by \fBMBIO\fP and their identifier values
is given in the \fBMBIO\fP manual page. The default format is
set using \fBmbdefaults\fP.
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIfilename\fP
.br
Sets the input filename. If \fIformat\fP > 0 (set with the 
\fB-f\fP option) then the swath sonar data contained in \fIinfile\fP 
is read and processed. If \fIformat\fP < 0, then \fIinfile\fP
is assumed to be an ascii file containing a list of the input swath sonar
data files to be processed and their formats.  The program will read 
the data in each one of these files.
In the \fIinfile\fP file, each
data file should be followed by a data format identifier, e.g.:
 	datafile1 11
 	datafile2 24
.br
This program uses the \fBMBIO\fP library and will read or write any swath sonar
format supported by \fBMBIO\fP. A list of the swath sonar data formats
currently supported by \fBMBIO\fP and their identifier values
is given in the \fBMBIO\fP manual page. Default: \fIinfile\fP = "stdin".
.TP
.B \-M
If the \fB-I\fP option has been used so that tidal models are created for swath files,
then this option causes each swath file's parameter file to be modified so that
\fBmbprocess\fP will read and apply the ancilliary tidal model file created by
\fBmbotps\fP.
.TP
.B \-O
\fIfilename\fP
.br
Sets the filename of the tidal model output.
.TP
.B \-R
\fIlongitude/latitude\fP
.br
Sets the longitude and latitude position at which the tidal model will be 
calculated.
.TP
.B \-V
Increases the verbosity of \fBmbotps\fP.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose one wishes to obtain a tidal model for the location 121W 36N extending 
at 60 second intervals over the day February 21, 2009. The following will suffice:
 	mbotps -R-125/36 -B2009/02/21/00/00/00 -E2009/02/21/23/59/59 -V
.br
.br
The shell output looks like:
 	Program mbotps
 	Version $Id: mbotps.1 1938 2012-02-22 20:58:08Z caress $
 	MB-system Version 5.1.2beta12
 	
 	 Lat/Lon/Time file:tmp_mbotps_llt_6995.txt
 	 Constituents to include: m2  s2  n2  k2  k1  o1  p1  q1  
 	 Predict OCEAN tide
 	 Interpolate minor constituents
 	
 	 Model:        ss/sandbox/tides/OTPSnc/DATA/Model_tpxo7.2
 	 Model is on grid uniform in lat,lon
 	 Lat limits:    -90.125 90.125
 	 Lon limits:    0.125 360.125
 	 Constituents: m2  s2  n2  k2  k1  o1  p1  q1  mf  mm  m4  ms4 mn4 
 	 Predict elevations (m)
 	 Constituents to include: m2  s2  n2  k2  k1  o1  p1  q1  
 	 Reading model... done
 	
 	Results are really in tide_tpxo7.2_model.txt
.br
.br
The output tidal model is in the file tide_tpxo7.2_model.txt, which includes
data that look like:
 	# Tide model generated by program mbotps
 	# Version: $Id: mbotps.1 1938 2012-02-22 20:58:08Z caress $
 	# MB-System Version: 5.1.2beta12
 	# Tide model generated by program mbotps
 	# which in turn calls OTPS program predict_tide obtained from:
 	#     http://www.coas.oregonstate.edu/research/po/research/tide/
 	# Run by user <caress> on cpu <shepard-9.local> at <Wed Dec 23 01:56:31 2009>
 	# Model:        ss/sandbox/tides/OTPSnc/DATA/Model_tpxo7.2
 	# Constituents included: m2  s2  n2  k2  k1  o1  p1  q1  
 	2009 02 21 00 00 00   -0.6870
 	2009 02 21 00 01 00   -0.6840
 	2009 02 21 00 02 00   -0.6820
 	2009 02 21 00 03 00   -0.6790
 	2009 02 21 00 04 00   -0.6770
 	2009 02 21 00 05 00   -0.6740
 	2009 02 21 00 06 00   -0.6710
 	2009 02 21 00 07 00   -0.6690
 	.................
 	2009 02 21 23 54 00   -0.7970
 	2009 02 21 23 55 00   -0.7960
 	2009 02 21 23 56 00   -0.7940
 	2009 02 21 23 57 00   -0.7930
 	2009 02 21 23 58 00   -0.7910
 	2009 02 21 23 59 00   -0.7890

Now, suppose that one wants to apply tide corrections directly to a set of EM3002
data in GSF format. First, execute \fBmbotps\fP with the datalist for the swath
data specified as input:
 	mbotps -Idatalist.mb-1 -V
.br
The resulting shell output looks like:
.br
 	Program mbotps
 	Version $Id: mbotps.1 1938 2012-02-22 20:58:08Z caress $
 	MB-system Version 5.1.2beta12

 	---------------------------------------

 	Processing tides for himbb05291.d23.mb121
 	
 	35602 records read from himbb05291.d23.mb121.fnv
 	
 	 Lat/Lon/Time file:tmp_mbotps_llt_7413.txt
 	 Constituents to include: m2  s2  n2  k2  k1  o1  p1  q1  
 	 Predict OCEAN tide
 	 Interpolate minor constituents
 	
 	 Model:        ss/sandbox/tides/OTPSnc/DATA/Model_tpxo7.2
 	 Model is on grid uniform in lat,lon
 	 Lat limits:    -90.125 90.125
 	 Lon limits:    0.125 360.125
 	 Constituents: m2  s2  n2  k2  k1  o1  p1  q1  mf  mm  m4  ms4 mn4 
 	 Predict elevations (m)
 	 Constituents to include: m2  s2  n2  k2  k1  o1  p1  q1  
 	 Reading model... done
 	 Results are in tmp_mbotps_llttd_7413.txt
 	
 	Results are really in himbb05291.d23.mb121.tde
.br
.br
The output tide files have the same structure shown above:
 	# Tide model generated by program mbotps
 	# Version: $Id: mbotps.1 1938 2012-02-22 20:58:08Z caress $
 	# MB-System Version: 5.1.2beta12
 	# Tide model generated by program mbotps
 	# which in turn calls OTPS program predict_tide obtained from:
 	#     http://www.coas.oregonstate.edu/research/po/research/tide/
 	# Run by user <caress> on cpu <shepard-9.local> at <Wed Dec 23 23:04:55 2009>
 	# Model:        ss/sandbox/tides/OTPSnc/DATA/Model_tpxo7.2
 	# Constituents included: m2  s2  n2  k2  k1  o1  p1  q1  
 	2005 10 18 19 01 36    0.0800
 	2005 10 18 19 02 36    0.0790
 	2005 10 18 19 03 36    0.0770
 	2005 10 18 19 04 36    0.0760
 	2005 10 18 19 05 37    0.0750
 	2005 10 18 19 06 37    0.0730
 	2005 10 18 19 07 37    0.0720
 	2005 10 18 19 08 37    0.0710
 	2005 10 18 19 09 37    0.0700
.br
In addition to generating *.tde files for each swath file referenced by the
input datalist structure, \fBmbotps\fP modifies the parameter file associated
with each swath file (creating it if necessary) so that tide correction is enabled
using the *.tde file and tide format 2. When \fBmbprocess\fP is run on the same
datalist, the files will be reprocessed, and the processing will include the 
application of the tide correction to all bathymetry.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(l), \fBmbprocess\fP, \fBmbset\fP

.SH BUGS
Installing the Fortran90 OTPSnc package from Oregon State is not particularly
easy.

