.TH mbconfig 1 "12 May 2017" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbconfig\fP \- provides command line access to the MB-System version and to
the locations of the levitus database and the OTPS tidal correction software.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbconfig\fP [ 
.br
\fB--verbose\fP
\fB--help\fP
.br
\fB--prefix\fP
\fB--cflags\fP
\fB--libs\fP
.br
\fB--version\fP
\fB--version-id\fP
\fB--version-major\fP
\fB--version-minor\fP
\fB--version-archive\fP
.br
\fB--levitus\fP
\fB--otps\fP
.br
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBMBconfig\fP provides command line access to the MB-System installation location 
the compile and libs flags needed to compile and link programs using MB-System 
libraries, and the locations of the levitus database and the OTPS tidal 
correction software.
When commands such as \fB--version\fP are given, the desired output will be
written to stdout. Each desired value is printed on a separate line. If \fB--verbose\fP
is specified, each value is output in two lines, the first consisting of a
descriptive identifier and the second the value itself. The options include
various forms of the installed \fBMB-System\fP version, the location of the
Levitus water sound speed model database accessed by the program \fBmblevitus\fP,
and the location of the installed OTPS tidal prediction software.

.SH MB-SYSTEM AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes
.br
  Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping
.br
  University of New Hampshire
.br
Christian do Santos Ferreira
.br
  MARUM - Center for Marine Environmental Sciences
.br
  University of Bremen

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --help
This option causes \fBmbconfig\fP to print out its usage options and exit.
.TP
.B --verbose
By default \fBmbconfig\fP outputs the desired values with no description or
explanation. When \fB--verbose\fP is specified the values are preceded on a separate
line by a descriptive identifier.
.TP
.B --prefix
This option causes \fBmbconfig\fP to output the \fBMB-System\fP install location.
The locations of the executable programs, the linkable libraries, and the
header files are in directories named bin, lib, and include in the install
locations. For instance, if the install location is "/usr/local", then executable
programs will be in "/usr/local/bin", libraries in "/usr/local/lib", and
header files in "/usr/local/include".
.TP
.B --cflags
This option causes \fBmbconfig\fP to output the compiler flags needed to compile
C programs or libraries that make use of functions available in \fBMB-System\fP
linkable libraries. These flags consist of specifying the location of the
\fBMB-System\fP header files.
.TP
.B --libs
This option causes \fBmbconfig\fP to output the linker flags needed to link a
C program with \fBMB-System\fP libraries. These flags consist of specifying the
location of the \fBMB-System\fP dynamic libraries and the list of libraries
available for linking.
.TP
.B --version
This option causes \fBmbconfig\fP to output the version string of the installed
\fBMB-System\fP.
.TP
.B --version-id
This option causes \fBmbconfig\fP to output an integer version of the installed
\fBMB-System\fP version. This value is constructed as follows:
.br
     version_id = 10000000 * version_major + 100000 * version_minor + version_archive
.br
so that:
.br
     5.5.2304 => 050502304
.br
These version id numbers are guarenteed to increase with newer versions.
.TP
.B --version-major
This option causes \fBmbconfig\fP to output the major version number of the installed
\fBMB-System\fP. This is the first of three values in an \fBMB-System\fP version
string, and is incremented only rarely in conjunction with major changes to
\fBMB-System\fP function and interfaces.
.TP
.B --version-minor
This option causes \fBmbconfig\fP to output the minor version number of the installed
\fBMB-System\fP. This is the second of three values in an \fBMB-System\fP version
string, and is incremented infrequently in conjunction with significant changes to
\fBMB-System\fP function.
.TP
.B --version-archive
This option causes \fBmbconfig\fP to output the archive version number of the installed
\fBMB-System\fP. This is the third of three values in an \fBMB-System\fP version
string, and corresponds to the revision number in the \fBMB-System\fP source code
archive. This number is incremented with every commitment of one or more changes
to the source code archive. Typically the revision number increments several
times between \fBMB-System\fP releases.
.TP
.B --levitus
This option causes \fBmbconfig\fP to output the path to the Levitus water sound
speed model database accessed by the program \fBmblevitus\fP.
.TP
.B --otps
This option causes \fBmbconfig\fP to output the location of the OTPS tidal
prediction software accessed by program \fBmbotps\fP.

.SH EXAMPLES
Consider an \fBMB-System\fP installation of release 5.5.2304 on an Apple MacBook Pro
in /usr/local with the OTPS software installed under /usr/local/src/OTPS2. In this
case, use of \fBmbconfig\fP with various arguments has the following results:
.br

     % mbconfig --prefix
     /usr/local/mbsystem

     % mbconfig --cflags
     -I/usr/local/include

     % mbconfig --libs
     -L/usr/local/libs -lmbaux.la -lmbsapi.la -lmbbsio.la -lmbview.la -lmbgsf.la -lmbxgr.la -lmbio.la

     % mbconfig --version
     5.5.2304

     % mbconfig --version-id
     50502304

     % mbconfig --version-major
     5

     % mbconfig --version-minor
     5

     % mbconfig --version-archive
     2304

     % mbconfig --levitus
     /usr/local/share/mbsystem/LevitusAnnual82.dat

     % mbconfig --otps
     /usr/local/src/OTPS2

     % mbconfig --version --version-id \\
                --prefix --cflags --libs \\
                --version-major --version-minor --version-archive \\
                --levitus --otps --verbose

     # Program mbconfig
     # MB-system Version 5.5.2304

     # MB-System install prefix:
     /usr/local

     # MB-System compile flags:
     -I/usr/local/include

     # MB-System link flags:
     -L/usr/local/libs -lmbaux.la -lmbsapi.la -lmbbsio.la -lmbview.la -lmbgsf.la -lmbxgr.la -lmbio.la
     
     # MB-System version:
     5.5.2304
     
     # MB-System version id:
     50502304
     
     # MB-System major version:
     5
     
     # MB-System minor version:
     5
     
     # MB-System archive version:
     2304
     
     # MB-System Levitus database location:
     /usr/local/share/mbsystem/LevitusAnnual82.dat
    
     # OTPS tide modeling package location:
     /usr/local/src/OTPS2

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
This program is not significant enough to deserve bugs.
