.TH mbm_fmtvel 1 "7 June 2013" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbm_fmtvel\fP \- Extract sound velocity info from Hydrosweep data
files and create output in tabular format.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbm_fmtvel\fP [\fB\-F\fIformat \fB\-I\fIinfilename \fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbm_fmtvel\fP is a macro that scans a Hydrosweep swath sonar data file
using the program \fBmbhsdump\fP and generates a list in columnar
format with time, date, latitude, longitude, C-mean, and C-keel
entrys. Comment records (lines) at the top of the output begin with '#'.
The columns are tab-delimited. The only allowed formats are 21 (raw
Hydrosweep data) and 24 (L-DEO in-house binary Hydrosweep data).

.SH MB-SYSTEM AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes
.br
  Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping
.br
  University of New Hampshire
.br
Christian do Santos Ferreira
.br
  MARUM - Center for Marine Environmental Sciences
.br
  University of Bremen

.SH ALSO CONTRIBUTED TO THIS PROGRAM
Suzanne H. O'Hara
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-F
\fIformat\fP
.br
Sets the format for the input swath sonar data using
\fBMBIO\fP integer format identifiers. The only allowed
formats are 21 (raw
Hydrosweep data) and 24 (L-DEO in-house binary Hydrosweep data).
.TP
.B \-I
\fIinfilename\fP
.br
Data file from which the input data will be read.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Only one output format is currently supported.
