.TH mbm_arc2grd 1 "11 April 2017" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbm_arc2grd\fP \- Macro to convert an ArcGIS ASCII grid 
to a GMT grid file in the GMT NetCDF grid format. 

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
mbm_arc2grd \fB\-I\fP\fIarcfile\fP \fB\-O\fP\fIgrdfile\fP 
[\fB-H\fP \fB-J\fP\fIprojection\fP \fB-N\fP\fInodata\fP \fB-T\fP\fItitle\fP \fB-V\fP
\fB-X\fP\fIxname\fP \fB-Y\fP\fIyname\fP \fB-Z\fP\fIzname\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbm_arc2grd\fP is a macro to convert a ArcGIS ASCII grid to an GMT grid file
in the GMT NetCDF grid format. This allows users to import the grid
into GMT. If the grid is not in geographic coordinates (longitude
and latitude), then the projected coordinate system must be specified
using the \fB-J\fP option.

This macro was substantially rewritten in 2017 to
use the \fBGMT\fP modules \fBgrdconvert\fP and \fBgrdedit\fP.

.SH MB-SYSTEM AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes
.br
  Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping
.br
  University of New Hampshire
.br
Christian do Santos Ferreira
.br
  MARUM - Center for Marine Environmental Sciences
.br
  University of Bremen

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIarcfile\fP
.br
Sets the filename of the input ArcGIS ASCII grid.
.TP
.B \-J
\fIprojection\fP
.br
This option specifies the projected coordinate system used for the ArcGIS ASCII
grid to be translated to a \fBGMT\fP netCDF grid.

ArcGIS ASCII grid files do not internally specify the coordinate system used.
\fBGMT\fP grids also do not necessarily include information about the coordinate
system. However, \fBMB-System\fP generates \fBGMT\fP grids that do have a
coordinate system definition embedded in the \fBGMT\fP grid header remark field,
and then uses that information when displaying the gridded data, either interactively
with \fBmbgrdviz\fP or in plots or GeoTiffs generated using the plotting
macros \fBmbm_grdplot\fP, \fBmbm_grd3dplot\fP, and \fBmbm_grdtiff\fP. By default,
\fBmbgrid\fP and \fBmbmosaic\fP generate grids in Geographic coordinates,
meaning that position is defined in longitude and latitude using the WGS84
geographic coordinate system. In both programs, the \fB-J\fP option can be
used to specify an alternate, projected coordinate system (PCS). When a PCS
is used, position will be defined in eastings and northings (meters) relative
to the origin of the particular PCS. Universal Transverse Mercator is the
most commonly used PCS in the oceanographic community, but \fBMB-System\fP supports a
large number of other PCS's as well. The underlying projection functions derive
from the PROJ.4 library originated by Gerald Evenden, then of the U.S. Geological
Survey.

If the ArcGIS grid that is to be translated for use with MB-System is in
geographic components, then no special arguments to \fBmbm_arc2grd\fP are
required. However, if the grid is in a projected coordinate system, then that
coordinate system must be specified with the \fB-J\fP\fIprojection\fP option
using a PCS identifier from the projection definition list provided at the end
of the \fBmbgrid\fP manualbpage.

For instance, to fully specify a particular northern UTM zone, set
projection = UTMXXN where XX gives the UTM zone (defined from 01 to 60). As an
example, a northern UTM zone 12 projection can be specifiedb using
\fB-J\fP\fIUTM12N\fP. Southern UTM zones are specified as UTMXXS. The European
Petroleum Survey Group (EPSG) has defined a large number of PCS's used worldwide
and assigned number id's to each; one can also specify the northern UTM zone 12
projection using its EPSG designation, or \fB-J\fP\fIepsg32612\fP.
.TP
.B \-N
\fInodata\fP
.br
\fBArcGIS\fP ASCII grids use a value defined in the grid header to delineate
regions with no data. By default, \fBmbm_arc2grd\fP translates grid values that
match the \fInodata\fP value in the header to NaN (not-a-number) values in the
output \fBGMT\fP grid. This option allows the user to set a different \fInodata\fP
value to be used in the translation.
.TP
.B \-O
\fIgrdfile\fP
.br
Sets the filename of the output GMT grid file. This file will be
in the \fBGMT\fP COARDS NetCDF floating point format. 
.TP
.B \-T
\fItitle\fP
.br
This option sets the title string to be embedded in the output \fBGMT\fP netcdf
grid file.
.TP
.B \-X
\fIxname\fP
.br
This option sets the \fIxname\fP string to be embedded in the output \fBGMT\fP netcdf
grid file. This string generally provides both the common name and the relevant
units of the x-axis of the grid. For geographic grids this will by default be
\fIxname\fP = "Longitude (degrees)". For PCS grids this will typically be
\fIxname\fP = "Easting (m)".
.TP
.B \-Y
\fIyname\fP
.br
This option sets the \fIyname\fP string to be embedded in the output \fBGMT\fP netcdf
grid file. This string generally provides both the common name and the relevant
units of the y-axis of the grid. For geographic grids this will by default be
\fIyname\fP = "Latitude (degrees)". For PCS grids this will typically be
\fIyname\fP = "Northing (m)".
.TP
.B \-Z
\fIzname\fP
.br
This option sets the \fIzname\fP string to be embedded in the output \fBGMT\fP netcdf
grid file. This string generally provides both the common name and the relevant
units of the z-axis of the grid. Commoon values include \fIzname\fP = "Topography (m)"
or  \fIzname\fP = "Bathymetry (m)".
.TP
.B \-V
The \fB\-V\fP option causes \fBmbm_arc2grd\fP to print out status messages.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose that we have been provided two versions of a topography grid in ArcGIS
ASCII format, one in geographic coordinates (PatchTopoGeoSq.asc) and another
in UTM zone 10N coordinates (PatchTopoUTM.asc). We would like to be able to
display both grids in \fBmbgrdviz\fP.

To convert the geographic grid, no special arguments are required:
.br
    mbm_arc2grd -I PatchTopoGeoSq.asc -O PatchTopoGeoSqTr.grd -V
.br
with the following output to the shell:
.br
    mbm_arc2grd:
    Version: : mbm_grd2arc 2296 2017-04-01 01:48:27Z caress mbm_arc2grd
    Input Arc ASCII grid file:                 PatchTopoGeoSq.asc
    Output GMT grd (netcdf COARDS) grid file:  PatchTopoGeoSqTr.grd
    No data value:      
    Projection:         Geographic
    X name:             
    Y name:             
    Z name:             
    Title:              
    Verbose:            1
    
    Running gmt grdconvert...
    gmt grdconvert PatchTopoGeoSq.asc=ef PatchTopoGeoSqTr.grd -V
    grdconvert: Translating file PatchTopoGeoSq.asc (format ef = ESRI Arc/Info ASCII Grid Interchange format (ASCII float)) to file PatchTopoGeoSqTr.grd (format nf = GMT netCDF format (32-bit float), COARDS, CF-1.5)
    
    Running gmt grdedit on PatchTopoGeoSqTr.grd...
    gmt grdedit PatchTopoGeoSqTr.grd -V -D"Longitude [degrees]/Latitude [degrees]//1/0///__Projection: Geographic"
    grdedit: Editing parameters for grid PatchTopoGeoSqTr.grd:
    grdedit: Decode and change attributes in file PatchTopoGeoSqTr.grd
    grdedit: File PatchTopoGeoSqTr.grd updated.
.br

To convert the UTM grid, the projection must be defined:
.br
    mbm_arc2grd -I PatchTopoUTM.asc -O PatchTopoUTMTr.grd -JUTM10N -V
.br
with the following output to the shell:
.br
    mbm_arc2grd:
    Version: : mbm_grd2arc 2296 2017-04-01 01:48:27Z caress mbm_arc2grd
    Input Arc ASCII grid file:                 PatchTopoUTM.asc
    Output GMT grd (netcdf COARDS) grid file:  PatchTopoUTMTr.grd
    No data value:      
    Projection:         UTM10N
    X name:             
    Y name:             
    Z name:             
    Title:              
    Verbose:            1
    
    Running gmt grdconvert...
    gmt grdconvert PatchTopoUTM.asc=ef PatchTopoUTMTr.grd -V
    grdconvert: Translating file PatchTopoUTM.asc (format ef = ESRI Arc/Info ASCII Grid Interchange format (ASCII float)) to file PatchTopoUTMTr.grd (format nf = GMT netCDF format (32-bit float), COARDS, CF-1.5)
    
    Running gmt grdedit on PatchTopoUTMTr.grd...
    gmt grdedit PatchTopoUTMTr.grd -V -D"Longitude [degrees]/Latitude [degrees]//1/0///__Projection: UTM10N"
    grdedit: Editing parameters for grid PatchTopoUTMTr.grd:
    grdedit: Decode and change attributes in file PatchTopoUTMTr.grd
    grdedit: File PatchTopoUTMTr.grd updated.
.br

In both cases, additional options could have been used to specify the name
strings or the nodata value.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbm_grd2arc\fP(1), \fBmbgrid\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Before we rewrote it, maybe. Now that it has been completely rewritten, perhaps.


