.TH mbtime 1 "26 October 2009" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbtime\fP - Translate between calendar time values and unix time.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbtime\fP [\fB-M\fItime_d\fP \fB-T\fIyear/month/day/hour/minute/second\fP \fB-V -H\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The program \fBmbtime\fP converts time values between unix time (seconds since 
1970/01/01 00:00:00.000000) and calendar time (e.g. 2008/006/05/17/24/32.000000). 
Unix time is also known as POSIX time or epoch time, and are typically represented
in \fBMB-System\fP documentation (and source code) as "time_d" values.
The input time is set using the command line arguments \fB-M\fP\fItime_d\fP for 
epoch seconds and \fB-T\fP\fIyear/month/day/hour/minute/second\fP for 
calendar time. The output time (in the form not specified as input) is 
written to stdout.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-M
\fItime_d\fP
.br
Sets the input time to be \fItime_d\fP in unix time, which
is defined as seconds since 00:00:00.000000 01 January 1970. If \fB-M\fP is
specified, this time will be converted to calendar time and output
to stdout in the form 
 	yyyy/mm/dd/hh/mm/ss.ssssss
.TP
.B \-T
\fIyear/month/day/hour/minute/second\fP
.br
Sets the input time to be \fIyear/month/day/hour/minute/second\fP.
If \fB-T\fP is specified, this time will be converted to 
\fItime_d\fP in epoch (Unix) seconds, which
are seconds since 00:00:00.000000 01 January 1970. 
The \fItime_d\fP value will be output to stdout.
.TP
.B \-V
Normally, \fBmbtime\fP only prints out the converted time.  If the
\fB-V\fP flag is given, then \fBmbtime\fP works in a "verbose" mode and
also outputs the program version being used.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose one wishes to convert the current time (06 June 2008 18:37:14.000000) 
to unix seconds. The following command:
 	mbtime -T2008/06/06/18/37/14.0
.br
yields the following result:
 	1212777434.000000

Suppose on wishes to convert the unix time 1212777434.0 to calendar time.
The following command:
 	mbtime -M1212777434.0
.br
yields the following result:
 	2008/06/06/18/37/14.000000

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(l), \fBmbio\fP(l)

.SH BUGS
Never bugs, but perhaps our good friends, the terrestrial isopods.
