.TH mbauvnavusbl 1 "3 June 2013" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbauvnavusbl\fP \- Adjusts inertial navigation of a submerged platform/vehicle
to be consistent with more accurate but less precise surface tracking (USBL) navigation. 

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbauvnavusbl\fP \fB\-I\fP\fIinavfile\fP [\fB\-L\fP
\fB\-O\fP\fIonavfile\fP  \fB\-U\fP\fIusblfile\fP\fB\-V \-H\fP ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
MBauvnavusbl reads a primary navigation file (usually from a submerged platform
swath survey) and also reads secondary navigation (e.g. USBL fixes). 
The program calculates position offsets between the raw survey navigation
and the secondary navigation every 3600 seconds (10 minutes), and then 
linearly interpolates and applies this adjustment vector for each 
primary navigation position. 

The inertial navigation is read in format 166 and the USBL navigation is 
read from format 165 files. The adjusted navigation is output in format 166.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIinavfile\fP
.br
Sets the input navigation filename. The navigation data must be
in format 166.
.B \-L
\fIlonflip\fP
.br
Sets the range of the longitude values used.
If \fIlonflip\fP=\-1 then the longitude values will be in
the range from \-360 to 0 degrees. If \fIlonflip\fP=0 
then the longitude values will be in
the range from \-180 to 180 degrees. If \fIlonflip\fP=1 
then the longitude values will be in
the range from 0 to 360 degrees.
Default: \fBmbauvnavusbl\fP uses the user default \fIlonflip\fP set using
\fBmbdefaults\fP.
.TP
.B \-O
\fIonavfile\fP
.br
Sets the output navigation filename. The navigation data will be
in format 166.
.TP
.B \-U
\fIusblfile\fP
.br
Sets the input usbl navigation filename. The usbl navigation data must be
in format 165.
.TP
.B \-V
The \fB\-V\fP option causes the program to be verbose.
.SH EXAMPLE
Coming...

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Da.
