.TH mbdefaults 1 "5 September 2014" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbdefaults\fP \- Set or list default mbio parameters for
reading and writing swath sonar data

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbdefaults\fP [\fB\-B\fP\fIfileiobuffer\fP \fB\-D\fP\fIpsdisplay\fP \fB\-F\fP\fIfbtversion\fP  \fB\-I\fP\fIimagedisplay\fP
\fB\-L\fP\fIlonflip\fP \fB\-M\fP\fImbviewsettings\fP \fB\-T\fP\fItimegap\fP \fB\-U\fP\fIuselockfiles\fP
\fB\-W\fP\fIproject\fP \fB\-V \-H\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbdefaults\fP is a utility for setting or listing the default read
parameters used by some \fBMBIO\fP utilities such as \fBMBcopy\fP or \fBMBgrdviz\fP.
If a user wishes to set default
parameters different from those set by the \fBMBIO\fP library, then
these specialized default values must be stored
in the file .mbio_defaults in the users home directory.  If any option
flag is given in invoking \fBmbdefaults\fP, then a new .mbio_defaults
file will be written incorporating the newly set parameters along with
any old parameters which have not been reset. If no option flag
is given, then \fBmbdefaults\fP will list the current default values
(set by \fBmbio\fP if no .mbio_defaults file exists).

.SH CHANGES FROM VERSION 4.6
Note that prior to version 5.0, the \fBMB-System\fP defaults
set by \fBmbdefaults\fP included the format id, a control for
ping averaging, longitude and latitude bounds for windowing
by area, and begin and end times for windowing in time. These
values are no longer set in the .mbio_defaults file or controlled
by \fBmbdefaults\fP.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-B
\fIfileiobuffer\fP
.br
Sets the file i/o block buffer size for certain formats (currently formats 88 and 58).
The \fIfileiobuffer\fP value is in kilobytes, so \fIfileiobuffer\fP = 1000 corresponds
rougly to a one megabyte buffer.
This option allows users to optimize i/o speed of certain large and complex data formats
(e.g Reson 7k and current generation Kongsberg multibeam) by increasing the block buffer
size from the system default. Making the buffer size larger generally has benefit only
when reading over a network; this option has little impact for filesystems mounted from
locally attached hard drives. At MBARI, where our primary data storage is accessed over
a gigabit ethernet network, setting \fIfileiobuffer\fP = 10000 achieves an 8% run time reduction
for \fBmbprocess\fP. Default: \fIfileiobuffer\fP = 0, which corresponds to the system
default.
.TP
.B \-D
\fIpsdisplay\fP
.br
Sets the program used for displaying Postscript graphics files
on a screen; this facility is used by shellscripts created through
macros like \fBmbm_plot\fP. The default Postscript display
utility is \fBgv\fP. Another common Postscript display utilities
is \fBghostview\fP; past postscript viewers included \fBpageview\fP
(for Sun workstations) and \fBxpsview\fP (for Silicon Graphics workstations).
.TP
.B \-F
\fIfbtversion\fP
.br
Set the version of fbt files created by \fBmbdatalist\fP and \fBmbprocess\fP.
If \fIfbtversion\fP = 2, "old", or "OLD", then the pre-5.3.1897 version of
format 71 will be used to write the "fast bathymetry" or "*.fbt" files.
If \fIfbtversion\fP = 3, "new", or "NEW", then the new, 5.3.1897-or-later version of
format 71 will be used to write the "fast bathymetry" or "*.fbt" files.

.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIimagedisplay\fP
.br
Sets the program used for displaying Tiff image files
on a screen; this facility is used by shellscripts created through
macros like \fBmbm_grdtiff\fP. The default image display
utility is \fBxv\fP. Other common image display utilities
are \fBgimp\fP (GNU image processing) and \fBgqview\fP.
.TP
.B \-L
\fIlonflip\fP
.br
Sets the range of the longitude values returned.
If \fIlonflip\fP=\-1 then the longitude values will be in
the range from \-360 to 0 degrees. If \fIlonflip\fP=0
then the longitude values will be in
the range from \-180 to 180 degrees. If \fIlonflip\fP=1
then the longitude values will be in
the range from 0 to 360 degrees.
Default: \fIlonflip\fP = 0.
.TP
.B \-MP
\fIcolortable/colortable_mode/shade_mode\fP
.br
Sets the default colortable, colortable mode, and shading mode for
the programs \fBMBgrdviz\fP and \fBMBeditviz\fP. The \fIcolortable\fP identifiers are
similar to those used for \fBmbm_grdplot\fP:
        0 = Haxby colortable
        1 = Bright colortable
        2 = Muted colortable
        3 = Grayscale colortable
        4 = Flat Gray colortable
        5 = Sealevel 1 colortable
        6 = Sealevel 2 colortable
.br
The \fIcolortable_mode\fP refers to whether low values
are represented by "cool" colors (e.g. blue) and high values
by "hot" colors (e.g. red), which corresponds to \fIcolortable_mode\fP = 0,
or the opposite, which corresponds to \fIcolortable_mode\fP = 1.

The \fIshade_mode\fP value determines whether shading is off
(\fIshade_mode\fP = 0), done by illumination(\fIshade_mode\fP = 1),
or done using slope magnitude (\fIshade_mode\fP = 2). Shading by overlay
cannot be a default because overlay data are not always defined.
.TP
.B \-MG
\fIslope_colortable/slope_colortable_mode\fP
.br
Sets the default colortable and colortable mode for displays of slope
using the programs \fBMBgrdviz\fP and \fBMBeditviz\fP.
The colortable and colortable mode identifiers are the same as given
above for \fB-MP\fP.
.TP
.B \-MO
\fIsecondary_colortable/secondary_colortable_mode\fP
.br
Sets the default colortable and colortable mode for displays of 
overlay data using the programs \fBMBgrdviz\fP and \fBMBeditviz\fP.
The colortable and colortable mode identifiers are the same as given
above for \fB-MP\fP.
.TP
.B \-MI
\fImagnitude/elevation/azimuth\fP
.br
Sets the default parameters for shading by illumination using the
programs \fBMBgrdviz\fP and \fBMBeditviz\fP.
The \fIelevation\fP and \fIazimuth\fP values are in degrees.
.TP
.B \-MS
\fImagnitude\fP
.br
Sets the default parameter for shading by slope magnitude using the
programs \fBMBgrdviz\fP and \fBMBeditviz\fP.
.TP
.B \-T
\fItimegap\fP
.br
Sets the maximum time gap in minutes between adjacent pings allowed before
the data is considered to have a gap. Default: \fItimegap\fP = 1.
.TP
.B \-U
\fIuselockfiles\fP
.br
Sets whether \fBMB-System\fP uses the file locking mechanism to insure that
a swath file is only processed or edited by a single program at a time.
To revert to pre-lockfile behavior for \fBmbedit\fP, \fBmbeditviz\fP,
\fBmbclean\fP, \fBmbareaclean\fP, \fBmbnavedit\fP, and \fBmbprocess\fP,
use \fB\-U\fP\fI0\fP or  \fB\-U\fP\fIno\fP. To reinstate use of lock files,
use \fB\-U\fP\fI1\fP or  \fB\-U\fP\fIyes\fP.
.TP
.B \-V
Normally, \fBmbdefaults\fP outputs only a list of the default values
to the stdout stream.  If the
\fB\-V\fP flag is given, then \fBmbdefaults\fP works in a "verbose" mode and
also outputs the program version being used.
.TP
.B \-W
\fIproject\fP
.br
Sets the name of the default project. This will be used by
MB-System database management utilities yet to be created.
Default: \fIproject\fP = "none".

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose that one wishes the default Postscript viewer to
be xpsview rather than gv.
The following will suffice to create (or rewrite)
a .mbio_defaults file in the users home directory:
	mbdefaults \-Dxpsview

The output will be:

 New MBIO Default Control Parameters:
 lonflip:  0
 timegap:  1.000000
 ps viewer:  xspsview
 img viewer: xv
 project:    none
 fbtversion: 3 (new)
 uselockfiles: 1
 fileiobuffer: 10000 (use 10000 kB buffer for fread() & fwrite())

Suppose that one just wishes to see what the current default
parameters are.  The following will suffice:
	mbdefaults

The output will be

 Current MBIO Default Control Parameters:
 lonflip:    0
 timegap:    1.000000
 ps viewer:  ghostview
 img viewer: xv
 project:    none
 fbtversion: 3 (new)
 uselockfiles: 1
 fileiobuffer: 10000 (use 10000 kB buffer for fread() & fwrite())

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbio\fP(1), \fBmbcontour\fP(1),
\fBmbswath\fP(1), \fBmbgrdtiff\fP(1),
\fBmbm_plot\fP(1), \fBmbm_grdplot\fP(1),
\fBmbm_grd3dplot\fP(1), \fBmbm_xyplot\fP(1), \fBmbm_grdtiff\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Too simple to have any really interesting bugs.

Well, ok, this program occassionally runs wild, destroying filesystems
and eating young children. But don't worry, it could never
happen to you...
