.TH mbimagelist 1 "31 March 2025" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbimagelist\fP \- parses recursive imagelist structures, performing one or more
tasks on the image files referenced in the imagelist(s). The default action is to
print out out the complete list of image file paths; other
possible tasks include also printing out associated timestamps and camera settings, and
printing out processing parameter values embedded in the imagelist structure.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbimagelist\fP
.br
[
.br
\fB--absolute\fP   {\fB-A\fP}
.br
\fB--copy\fP=\fIdirectory\fP   {\fB-C\fP\fIdirectory\fP}
.br
\fB--copyhere\fP
.br
\fB--files\fP   {\fB-F\fP}
.br
\fB--help\fP   {\fB-H\fP}
.br
\fB--input\fP=\fIfile\fP   {\fB-I\fP\fIfile\fP}
.br
\fB--left\fP   {\fB-L\fP}
.br
\fB--parameters\fP   {\fB-P\fP}
.br
\fB--right\fP   {\fB-RfP}
.br
\fB--settings\fP   {\fB-S\fP}
.br
\fB--single\fP
.br
\fB--verbose\fP   {\fB-V\fP}
.br
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBMBimagelist\fP is a utility for parsing imagelist files.
Imagelist files, or lists of seafloor photographic images,
are used by a number of \fBMB-System\fP programs dealing with
seafloor photography. These lists may contain references
to other imagelists, making them recursive. 
By default, the program \fBmbimagelist\fP outputs each
image filename encountered as it parses through the input imagelist tree. The output
paths can be relative to the current working directory or absolute. 

Imagelist files can also contain processing parameters associated with the images, including 
specifying a file containing the calibration parameters for the camera rig, specifying
a file containing the trajectory (navigation and attitude) of the camera rig as images
were collected, specifying a file with an image correction lookup table, and several other
parameters. All of these parameters correspond to command line options for \fBmbphotomosaic\fP 
that can also be specified.

This program
can be used in shellscripts to read imagelists in the same fashion
as \fBMB-System\fP programs like \fBmbphotomosaic\fP and \fBmbphotocorrect\fP.
This program can also be used to check and debug complex recursive
imagelist structures.


.SH MB-SYSTEM AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes
.br
  Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping
.br
  University of New Hampshire
.br
Christian do Santos Ferreira
.br
  MARUM - Center for Marine Environmental Sciences
.br
  University of Bremen

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --copy=\fIdirectory\fP
.br
Causes the image files referenced in the input imagelist structure to be
copied to the specified directory and creates a imagelist
(names "imagelist.mb-1") in that same directory that references the copied image files.
.TP
.B --copyhere
.br
Causes the image files referenced in the input imagelist structure to be
copied to the current directory and creates a imagelist
(names "imagelist.mb-1") that references the copied image files.
.TP
.B --report
.br
Causes a listing to be printed of the unique imagelist files referenced through
the recursive imagelist structure. Each line begins with the recursion level
of that imagelist file within the overall structure followed by the full path of
the imagelist file indented by a number of tabs equal to the recursion level.
.TP
.B --format
\fIformat\fP
.br
Sets the data format associated with the imagelist or swath data
file specified with the \fB--input\fP option. By default, this program
will attempt to determine the format from the input file suffix
(e.g. a file ending in .mb57 has a format id of 57, and a file
ending in .mb-1 has a format id of \-1). A imagelist has a format id
of \-1.
.TP
.B --help
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B --input
\fIFILE\fP
.br
Sets the input filename. If \fIformat\fP > 0 (set with the
\fB\-f\fP option) then the swath data filename specified by \fIinfile\fP
is output along with its format and a file weight of 1.0.
If \fIformat\fP < 0, then \fIinfile\fP
is treated as a imagelist file containing a list of the input swath sonar
data files to be processed and their formats.  The program will parse
the imagelist (recursively, if necessary) and output each swath filename
and the associated format and file weight.
.TP
.B --make-ancilliary
This argument causes \fBMBimagelist\fP to generate three types of ancillary
data files ("inf", "fbt", and "fnv").
In all cases,
the ancillary filenames are just the original filename with
".inf", ".fbt", or ".fnv" appended on the end.
\fBMB-System\fP makes use of ancillary data files in a number
of instances. The most prominent ancillary files are metadata or
"inf" files (created from the output of \fBmbinfo\fP).
Programs such as \fBmbgrid\fP and \fBmbm_plot\fP try to check "inf"
files to see if the corresponding data files include data within
desired areas. Additional ancillary files are used to speed
plotting and gridding functions. The "fast bath" or "fbt" files
are generated by copying the swath bathymetry to a sparse,
quickly read format (format 71). The "fast nav" or "fnv" files
are just ASCII lists of navigation generated using \fBmblist\fP
with a \fB--update-ancilliary\fP\fItMXYHSc\fP option. Programs such as \fBmbgrid\fP,
\fBmbswath\fP, and \fBmbcontour\fP will try to read "fbt" and "fnv" files
instead of the full data files whenever only bathymetry or
navigation information are required.
.TP
.B --update-ancilliary
This argument causes \fBMBimagelist\fP to generate the three ancillary
data files ("inf", "fbt", and "fnv") if
these files don't already exist or are out of date.
.TP
.B --processed
Normally, \fBmbimagelist\fP allows $PROCESSED and $RAW tags within
the imagelist files to determine whether processed file names are
reported when available ($PROCESSED) or only raw file names are
reported ($RAW). The \fB--processed\fP option forces \fBmbimagelist\fP
to output processed file names when they exist.
.TP
.B --problem
This option causes the program to check each
data file for the existence of any ancillary files
referenced in its mbprocess parameter file
(if the parameter file exists). The relevant ancillary
files include edit save files generated by \fBmbedit\fP
or \fBmbclean\fP, navigation files generated by \fBmbnavedit\fP
or \fBmbnavadjust\fP, tide files, and svp files. An error message
is output for each missing ancillary file.
.TP
.B --bounds
\fIW/E/S/N\fP
.br
The bounds of the desired area are set in longitude
and latitude using w=west, e=east, s=south, and n=north.
This option causes the program to check each
data file with an "inf" file for overlap with
the desired bounds, and only report those
files with data in the desired area (or no
"inf" file to check). This behavior mimics that of
\fBmbgrid\fP, allowing users to check what data files will
contribute to gridding some particular area.
.TP
.B --status
This option causes \fBmbimagelist\fP to report the status of the files
it lists, including whether the file is up to date or needs reprocessing,
and if the file is locked. \fBMBprocess\fP sets locks while operating on
a swath file to prevent other instances of \fBmbprocess\fP from simultaneously
operating on that same file. Locking consists of creating a small text file
named by appending ".lck" to the swath filename; while this file exists
other programs will not modify the locked file. The locking program deletes
the lock file when it is done. Orphaned lock files may be left if \fBmbprocess\fP
crashes or is interrupted. These will prevent reprocessing by \fBmbprocess\fP,
but can be both detected and removed using \fBmbimagelist\fP.
.TP
.B --raw
Normally, \fBmbimagelist\fP allows $PROCESSED and $RAW tags within
the imagelist files to determine whether processed file names are
reported when available ($PROCESSED) or
only (raw) unprocessed file names are
reported ($RAW). The \fB--raw\fP option forces \fBmbimagelist\fP
to only output raw file names.
.TP
.B --verbose
Normally, \fBmbimagelist\fP only prints out the filenames and formats.
If the \fB--verbose\fP flag is given, then \fBmbinfo\fP works in a "verbose" mode and
outputs the program version being used.
.TP
.B --unlock
This option causes \fBmbimagelist\fP to remove any processing locks on files
it parses. \fBMBprocess\fP and other programs may set locks while
operating on a swath file to prevent other programs from simultaneously
operating on that same file.The consists of creating a small text file
named by appending ".lck" to the swath filename; while this file exists
other programs will not modify the locked file. The locking program deletes
the lock file when it is done. Orphaned lock files may be left if \fBMB-System\fP
programs crash or are interrupted. These can be detected using the \fB--status\fP
option of \fBmbimagelist\fP.
.TP
.B --imagelistp
The \fB--imagelistp\fP option causes the program to generate a imagelist file that
will first set a $PROCESSED flag and then reference the input
file specified using the \fB--input\fP=\fIFILE\fP option.
The output imagelist is named
by adding a "p.mb-1" suffix to the root of the input file (the root is
the portion before any \fBMB-System\fP suffix).
.br
By default, the input is assumed to be a imagelist named imagelist.mb-1, resulting
in an output imagelist named imagelistp.mb-1 with the following contents:
.br
 	$PROCESSED
 	imagelist.mb-1 \-1
.br
If the input file is specified as a imagelist like
imagelist_sslo.mb-1, then the output imagelist
imagelist_sslop.mb-1
will have the following contents:
.br
 	$PROCESSED
 	imagelist_sslo.mb-1 \-1
.br
If the input file is specified as a swath file like
20050916122920.mb57, then the output imagelist 20050916122920p.mb-1
will have the following contents:
.br
 	$PROCESSED
 	20050916122920.mb57 57

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose we have two swath data files from an EM3000 multibeam
and another two from an Hydrosweep MD multibeam. We might
construct two imagelist files. For the EM3000 we might
have a file imagelist_em3000.mb-1 containing:
 	0004_20010705_165004_raw.mb57 57
 	0005_20010705_172010_raw.mb57 57
.br
For the Hydrosweep MD data we might have a file imagelist_hsmd.mb-1
containing:
 	al10107051649.mb102 102
 	al10107051719.mb102 102

Further suppose that we have found it necessary to edit
the bathymetry in 0005_20010705_172010_raw.mb57 and
al10107051719.mb102 using \fBmbedit\fP, and that \fBmbprocess\fP
has been run on both files to generate processed files
called 0005_20010705_172010_rawp.mb57 and
al10107051719p.mb102.

If we run:
 	mbimagelist --input=imagelist_em3000.mb-1
.br
the output is:
 	0004_20010705_165004_raw.mb57 57 1.000000
 	0005_20010705_172010_raw.mb57 57 1.000000
.br
Here the file name is followed by the format and then
by a third column containing the default file weight of 1.0.

Similarly, if we run:
 	mbimagelist --input=imagelist_hsmd.mb-1
.br
the output is:
 	al10107051649.mb102 102 1.000000
 	al10107051719.mb102 102 1.000000

If we insert a line
 	$PROCESSED
.br
at the top of both imagelist_hsmd.mb-1 and imagelist_em3000.mb-1,
then the output of \fBmbimagelist\fP changes so that:
 	mbimagelist --input=imagelist_em3000.mb-1
.br
yields:
 	0004_20010705_165004_raw.mb57 57 1.000000
 	0005_20010705_172010_rawp.mb57 57 1.000000
and:
 	mbimagelist --input=imagelist_hsmd.mb-1
.br
yields:
 	al10107051649.mb102 102 1.000000
 	al10107051719p.mb102 102 1.000000

Now suppose we create a imagelist file called imagelist_all.mb-1
that refers to the two imagelists shown above (without the
$PROCESSED tags). If the contents of imagelist_all.mb-1 are:
 	imagelist_em3000.mb-1 \-1 100.0
 	imagelist_hsmd.mb-1   \-1   1.0
.br
where we have specified different file weights for the
two imagelists, then:
 	mbimagelist --input=imagelist_all.mb-1
.br
yields:
 	0004_20010705_165004_raw.mb57 57 100.000000
 	0005_20010705_172010_raw.mb57 57 100.000000
 	al10107051649.mb102 102 1.000000
 	al10107051719.mb102 102 1.000000

Now, if we use the \fB--processed\fP option to force \fBmbimagelist\fP
to output processed data file names when possible, then:
 	mbimagelist --input=imagelist_all.mb-1 --processed
.br
yields:
 	0004_20010705_165004_raw.mb57 57 100.000000
 	0005_20010705_172010_rawp.mb57 57 100.000000
 	al10107051649.mb102 102 1.000000
 	al10107051719p.mb102 102 1.000000

To demonstrate the imagelist file listing function, consider the imagelist file
named imagelist.mb-1 that is located at the top of MBARI's shipboard swath mapping
database structure. This file references imagelists under directories for each of
the institutions that we have sourced survey data from (e.g. CCOM, GEOMAR, IFREMER,
etc.), and each of those imagelists reference imagelist files in directories for
individual surveys or expedition legs, which in turn reference swath files for
those surveys (or in some cases reference more imagelists if the expedition leg
is organized into multiple surveys). We use the \fB--report\fP option to obtain
the following listing (which actually runs a lot longer than shown here):
.br
yields:
 	<00> imagelist.mb-1
 	<01> 	CCOM/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		CCOM/NR07-1/imagelist.mb-1
 	<01> 	GEOMAR/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/SONNE100/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/SONNE47/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/SO108/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/GEOMETEP/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/SO83/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/SO92/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/SO99/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/SO109-1/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/SO109-2/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/SO111/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/SO112/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/SO141/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		GEOMAR/SO142/imagelist.mb-1
 	<01> 	IFREMER/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/CHARCOT/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/FOUNDATION/imagelist_mb71.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/GEOMETEP4/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/MANZPA/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/NOUPA/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/OLIPAC/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/PAPNOU87/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/PAPNOU99/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/POLYNAUT/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/SEAPOS/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/ZEPOLYF1/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/ZEPOLYF2/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/ZEPOLYF3/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/BENTHAUS/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/SISMITA/imagelist.mb-1
 	<02> 		IFREMER/ACT/imagelist.mb-1

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
No true bugs here, only distantly related arthropods... Yum.
Seriously, it would be better if the copy function preserved
the modification times of the copied swath files and ancillary
files. Copying of processed files should also be an option.
