.TH mbm_grd2arc 1 "3 June 2013" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbm_grd2arc\fP \- Macro to convert a GMT
grid file in the GMT NetCDF grid format
to an ArcView ASCII grid.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
mbm_grd2arc \fB\-I\fP\fIgrdfile\fP \fB\-O\fP\fIarcfile\fP [\fB\-H\fP \fB\-N\fP\fInodata\fP \fB\-V\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbm_grd2arc\fP is a macro to convert a GMT
grid file in the GMT NetCDF grid format
to an ArcView ASCII grid. This allows users to import the grid
into Arc/Info and ArcView. The grids must have the same grid
interval in both longitude and latitude. If the grid was created
using \fBmbgrid\fP or \fBmbmosaic\fP, the \fB\-E\fP option
must have been used in that program
to set the grid cell sizes equal (see the mbgrid and mbmosaic
manual pages).
.br
The macro first obtains the bounds, dimensions, and grid
cell size of the grid using the GMT program \fBgrdinfo\fP.
The grid dimensions, the lower left position, and the
grid cell size are written to the header of the output
ArcView ASCII grid file.
The macro then uses the GMT program \fBgrd2xyz\fP to
dump each of the grid values to a temporary ASCII file.
This temporary file is read and parsed one value at
a time.  Any NaN values are
replaced by the \fInodata\fP value specified with the \fB\-N\fP
option. Each final value is printed to the output file.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIgrdname\fP
.br
Sets the filename of the input GMT grid file. This file must be
in the GMT NetCDF GRD format.
.TP
.B \-N
\fInodata\fP
.br
Sets the "no data" value used in the output ASCII file.
Default: \fInodata\fP = \-99999.
.TP
.B \-O
\fIarcfile\fP
.br
Sets the filename of the output ArcView ASCII grid.
.TP
.B \-V
The \fB\-V\fP option causes \fBmbm_grd2arc\fP to print out status messages.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose that we have used \fBmbgrid\fP to obtain a
topography grid file called KohalaA_bath.grd in the GMT NetCDF
GRD format:
 	mbgrid \-Idatalist \\
 		-OKohalaA_bath \\
 		-R-155.72855/-155.31928/20.09488/20.47645 \\
 		-E30.0/0m! \-A2 \-N \-G3 \-C1 \-V
.br
In this case, the \fB\-E\fP option was used
to force \fBmbgrid\fP to use equal longitude and latitude
grid cell sizes. See the \fBmbgrid\fP or \fBmbmosaic\fP manual pages for
details on the usage of the \fB\-E\fP option in those
programs.

In order to convert KohalaA_bath.grd to an ArcView ASCII grid
so that the data can be imported into the Arc/Info or ArcView
GIS packages, we use the \fBmbm_grd2arc\fP macro:
 	mbm_grd2arc \-IKohalaA_bath.grd \\
 		-OKohalaA_bath.asc \-V
.br
Running the example above produced the following output:

 	Program mbm_grd2arc status:
 	        Input GRD file:            KohalaA_bath.grd
 	        Output ArcView ASCII file: KohalaA_bath.asc
 	        Grid dimensions:  1426  1329
 	        Grid cell sizes:  0.0002871995719  0.0002871995719
 	        Grid bounds:      \-155.72855  \-155.3192906    20.09488  20.47628103

 	Generating temporary file...
 	Parsing temporary file...
 	10% complete
 	20% complete
 	30% complete
 	40% complete
 	50% complete
 	60% complete
 	70% complete
 	80% complete
 	90% complete
 	100% complete

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbgrid\fP(1),
\fBmbmosaic\fP(1), \fBmbm_arc2grd\fP(1), \fBmbm_grid\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Maybe. Maybe not.
