.TH mbm_tmap 1 "18 April 2026" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbm_tmap\fP \- Macro to convert XYZ point clouds to 3D Tiles and generate a Cesium viewer.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbm_tmap\fP \fB-I\fP\fIpointcloud.xyz\fP
[\fB-O\fP\fItiles_dir\fP]
[\fB-P\fP\fIport\fP]
[\fB--serve-only\fP | \fB--no-convert\fP]
[\fB-N\fP]
[\fB-S\fP]
[\fB-W\fP]
[\fB-V\fP]
[\fB-H\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbm_tmap\fP is a macro that automates point cloud web visualization setup.
It runs \fBpy3dtiles convert\fP on an input XYZ point cloud file, writes an
\fBindex.html\fP Cesium viewer file into the output tiles directory, and can
optionally start a local HTTP server using \fBpython -m http.server\fP.

By default \fBmbm_tmap\fP performs conversion from XYZ input. If
\fB--serve-only\fP (or \fB--no-convert\fP) is specified, conversion is skipped
and an existing tiles directory is served directly.

This macro is intended for quick local testing and browsing of tiled point cloud
data products.

.SH MB-SYSTEM AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes
.br
  Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping
.br
  University of New Hampshire
.br
Christian do Santos Ferreira
.br
  MARUM - Center for Marine Environmental Sciences
.br
  University of Bremen

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-I
\fIpointcloud.xyz\fP
.br
Input XYZ point cloud file. This option is required unless
\fB--serve-only\fP or \fB--no-convert\fP is specified.

.TP
.B \-O
\fItiles_dir\fP
.br
Output directory for 3D Tiles and generated \fBindex.html\fP.
Default is \fBtiles\fP.

.TP
.B \-P
\fIport\fP
.br
HTTP server port used when starting \fBpython -m http.server\fP.
Default is \fB8000\fP.

.TP
.B --serve-only, --no-convert
.br
Skip \fBpy3dtiles\fP conversion and serve an existing tiles directory.
In this mode \fB-O\fP should point to an existing tiles directory.
If \fBindex.html\fP already exists it is reused.

.TP
.B \-N
.br
Do not open a browser automatically.

.TP
.B \-S
.br
Do not start a local HTTP server.

.TP
.B \-W
.br
Wait on the server process after starting it. Use Ctrl+C to stop.

.TP
.B \-V
.br
Verbose output.

.TP
.B \-H
.br
Print help message and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
Convert an XYZ file to tiles and start local server:
.br
\fBmbm_tmap -I cloud.xyz -O tiles -V\fP

Serve an existing tiles directory without reconversion:
.br
\fBmbm_tmap --serve-only -O tiles -P 8081 -W -V\fP

Convert an XYZ file to tiles without starting server:
.br
\fBmbm_tmap -I cloud.xyz -O tiles -S\fP

Start server and keep the macro attached to server lifetime:
.br
\fBmbm_tmap -I cloud.xyz -O tiles -W\fP

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbgrd2gltf\fP(1), \fBmbsystem\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
