.TH mbm_project 1 "3 June 2013" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbm_utm\fP \- Macro to perform forward and inverse UTM projections
of ASCII data triples.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
mbm_utm \fB\-I\fP\fIinfile\fP \fB\-O\fP\fIoutfile\fP
\fB\-Z\fP\fIzone\fP \fB\-E\fP\fIellipsoid\fP [\fB\-F \-Q \-H \-V\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbm_utm\fP is a macro to perform forward and inverse UTM projections
of ASCII data triples using the GMT program mapproject.
Forward projections translate from geographic data
(lon, lat, value) to UTM eastings and northings (x, y, value).
Inverse projections translate from (x, y, z) to (lon, lat, z).
Both the input and output files must be specified.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH SIMPLE DESCRIPTION OF BASIC OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-H\fP
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
\fB\-E\fP\fIellipsoid\fP
Sets the ellipsoid to be used. The default
is to use the WGS-84 ellipsoid, in accordance with
the NAD-83 datum. If ellipsoid = "Clarke-1866",
then the Clarke-1866 ellipsoid will be used in
accordance with the NAD-27 datum. Note that this
macro cannot be used to accomplish a true datum
shift between NAD-27 and NAD-83 because the 1986
transition to NAD-83 also involved additional
adjustments to positions.
.TP
\fB\-F\fP
Causes \fBmbm_utm\fP to use or generate eastings and northings
in feet rather than meters.
.TP
\fB\-I\fP\fIinfile\fP
Sets the name of the data file to be processed.
The first two columns of the ASCII input
data stream must be either longitude and
latitude values (for geographic to projected
transformation) or easting and northing values
(for projected to geographic transformation).
Any additional columns of data are passed unaltered to the output.
.TP
\fB\-O\fP\fIoutfile\fP
Sets the name of the output data file to be generated.
The first two columns of the ASCII output
data stream will be either easting and northing
values (for geographic to projected
transformation) or longitude and latitude values
(for projected to geographic transformation).
Any additional columns of data are passed unaltered to the output.
.TP
\fB\-Q\fP
This option causes the transformation to be from
projected coordinates (eastings and northings) to
geographic coordinates (longitude and latitude).
The default is to transform from geographic to
projected coordinates.
.TP
\fB\-Z\fP\fIzone\fP
Sets the UTM zone.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose we have a file containing longitude, latitude,
and depth triples called llz.dat. To transform the
coordinates to eastings and northings in the
UTM Zone 10 projection, use:
.br
 	mbm_utm \-Illz.dat \-Z10 \-Oenz.dat
.br
The file enz.dat will contain eastings and northings
instead of longitude and latitude values. To transform
back to geographic coordinates, use:
.br
 	mbm_utm \-Ienz.dat \-Z10 \-Q \-Ollz2.dat
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBproject\fP

.SH BUGS
Too new to have bugs.
