.TH mbm_makesvp 1 "29 November 2016" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbm_makesvp\fP \- Macro to extract sound speed and depth data from a datalist of swath files,
and generate a sound velocity profile model from averages of the sound speed values in regular depth ranges.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbm_makesvp\fP \fB\-I\fP\fIinputfile\fP 
[\fB\-A\fP \fB\-D\fP\fIdepthinterval\fP \fB\-H\fP \fB\-M\fP\fImode\fP
\fB\-O\fP\fIoutputfile\fP \fB\-V\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbm_makesvp\fP is a macro to extract sound speed and depth data from a datalist of swath files, 
and generate a sound velocity profile model from averages of the sound 
speed values in regular depth ranges. This macro is intended for use 
with mapping data from submerged platforms (e.g. ROVs and AUVs) carrying 
CTD or SSV sensors. If -M0 is used, then sound speed values are 
extracted directly from data records containing CTD or SSV values. 
If -M1 is used, then sound speed values are extracted from the sonar 
survey data records (e.g. the sound speed values used for beamforming). 
The sound speed and sonar depth value pairs are binned according to the \fIdepthinterval\fP
value, and average sound speed values are reported for bins with at least one value.
If -A is specified, the sound speed profile is prepended with a zero 
depth value equal to the shallowest calculated value, and appended with a 
full ocean depth (11000 meters) value equal to the deepest calculated 
corrected for pressure using a correction of 0.0167 * delta_depth in m/sec. 
The \fB\-O\fP option specifies the output filename; by default the model is output to
the stdout stream.

.SH MB-SYSTEM AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes
.br
  Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping
.br
  University of New Hampshire
.br
Christian do Santos Ferreira
.br
  MARUM - Center for Marine Environmental Sciences
.br
  University of Bremen

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-A
If -A is specified, the sound speed profile is prepended with a zero 
depth value equal to the shallowest calculated value, and appended with a 
full ocean depth (11000 meters) value equal to the deepest calculated 
corrected for pressure using a correction of 0.0167 * delta_depth in m/sec. 
.TP
.B \-D
\fIdepthinterval\fP
.br
Sets the size in meters of the depth bins used to calculate an average sound speed
versus depth model. The default value is 25 meters.
.TP
.B \-F
\fIformat\fP
.br
Sets the data format for the input data.
If \fIformat\fP < 0, then the input file specified
with the \fB\-I\fP option will actually contain a list of input swath sonar
data files. This program uses the \fBMBIO\fP library
and will read or write any swath sonar
format supported by \fBMBIO\fP. A list of the swath sonar data formats
currently supported by \fBMBIO\fP and their identifier values
is given in the \fBMBIO\fP manual page. Default: \fIformat\fP = \-1.
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIinputfile\fP
.br
Sets the input filename. If \fIformat\fP > 0 (set with the
\fB\-f\fP option) then the swath sonar data contained in \fIinfile\fP
is read and processed. If \fIformat\fP < 0 (the default),
then \fIinfile\fP
is assumed to be an ascii file containing a list of the input swath sonar
data files to be processed and their formats.  The program will read
the data in each one of these files.
In the \fIinputfile\fP file, each
data file should be followed by a data format identifier, e.g.:
 	datafile1 11
 	datafile2 24
.br
This program uses the \fBMBIO\fP library and will read any swath sonar
format supported by \fBMBIO\fP. However, not all formats contain
sound speed or CTD information, and useful results can only be expected
from data actually including the relevant values.
A list of the swath sonar data formats
currently supported by \fBMBIO\fP and their identifier values
is given in the \fBMBIO\fP manual page. The default input filename is
"datalist.mb-1".
.TP
.B \-M
\fImode\fP
.br
If \fB\-M\fP\fI0\fP is used, then sound speed values are 
extracted directly from data records containing CTD or SSV values. 
If \fB\-M\fP\fI1\fP is used, then sound speed values are extracted from the sonar 
survey data records (e.g. the sound speed values used for beamforming). 
Default: \fImode\fP=0.
.TP
.B \-O
\fIoutput\fP
.br
Sets the name of the output file for the sound speed versus depth model. By default,
the model is output to the stdout stream.
.TP
.B \-V
The \fB\-V\fP option causes \fBmbm_makesvp\fP to print out status messages.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose we have a set of swath files from an AUV-based survey in a directory and we
want to construct an average sound speed versus depth model from these data. The
command:
.br
	mbm_makesvp -Idatalist.mb-1 -D25 -Osvp.txt -V
.br
will generate a model of sound speed versus depth in the output file "svp.txt".

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbctdlist\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Likely yes.
