.TH mbmakedatalist 1 "31 May 2026" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbmakedatalist\fP \- Macro to generate a datalist of the swath
files in a specified directory.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbmakedatalist\fP
[\fB\-B\fP\fIsize\fP|\fB\-\-min\-size=\fP\fIsize\fP]
[\fB\-F\fP\fIformat\fP|\fB\-\-format=\fP\fIformat\fP]
[\fB\-I\fP\fIdirectory\fP|\fB\-\-input=\fP\fIdirectory\fP]
[\fB\-L\fP|\fB\-\-skip\-latest\fP]
[\fB\-O\fP\fIdatalist\fP|\fB\-\-output=\fP\fIdatalist\fP]
[\fB\-P\fP|\fB\-\-ignore\-processed\fP]
[\fB\-S\fP\fIsuffix\fP|\fB\-\-suffix=\fP\fIsuffix\fP]
[\fB\-T\fP|\fB\-\-no\-time\-sort\fP]
[\fB\-H\fP|\fB\-\-help\fP]
[\fB\-V\fP|\fB\-\-verbose\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBMbmakedatalist\fP is a macro to generate an MB-System datalist file
referencing all identifiable swath files in the specified target directory.

Datalists are fundamental structures in \fBMB-System\fP workflows because they
allow programs to operate on sets of swath data files.
Datalist files are text lists of swath data files and their format ids with each
file entry taking up a single line. These lists may contain references to other
datalists, making them recursive. Datalists may also contain comments and parsing
directives that, for example, determine whether parsing returns references to
raw or processed data files. See the \fBMB-System\fP manual page for details
on the format and structure of datalists.

This macro is used to easily construct a datalist referencing swath files in a
directory, often as part of setting up the \fBMB-System\fP processing environment
for a new seafloor mapping dataset. By default, \fBmbmakedatalist\fP tests
all of the filenames in the local directory for adherence to the \fBMB-System\fP
swath file naming convention (see the \fBmbsystem\fP manual page for details),
and makes an output datalist including all of the files that can be recognized
as swath data. This can include files with suffixes such as ".mb88", that are
recognized as format 88 (Reson s7k) files, and files with recognized vendor
format suffixes, such as "_raw.all" or ".all" for old and recent Kongsberg
multibeam data, respectively. The suffix of the files to be considered can be
specified with the \fB\-S\fP\fIsuffix\fP (or \fB\-\-suffix=\fP\fIsuffix\fP) option;
under most circumstances this is the best approach as it prevents
\fBmbmakedatalist\fP from including files that are not intended for inclusion
by the user yet satisfy one of the many recognized naming conventions.
By default, \fBmbmakedatalist\fP infers the format id of included files using
the naming conventions. The format id can be specified using the
\fB\-F\fP\fIformat\fP (or \fB\-\-format=\fP\fIformat\fP) option.

\fBMB-System\fP differentiates between raw and processed files by inserting the
letter "p" into the processed file name immediately before the filename suffix.
For instance, for Reson 7k data the raw files will have file suffix of *.mb88,
and the processed files generated by \fBmbprocess\fP will end with *p.mb88.
When using \fBmbmakedatalist\fP to generate a datalist by specifying a suffix,
processed files can be excluded from the datalist by also specifying the \fB\-P\fP
(or \fB\-\-ignore\-processed\fP) option. Thus it is possible to generate a datalist
of raw files in a directory containing both raw and processed file.

The output datalist will be placed in the current working
directory. The output datalist is named datalist.mb-1
by default, but can be specified with the \fB\-O\fP (or \fB\-\-output\fP) option.
If no target directory is specified with the \fB\-I\fP (or \fB\-\-input\fP) option,
then the current working directory is used. In order for swath files to be
recognized and included in the datalist, they must conform to the MB-System
swath file naming convention (see the \fBmbsystem\fP manual page for details).

Most seafloor mapping sonars and datalogging packages produce original swath
data files with names constructed so that standard directory listings are in
time order. However, Kongsberg multibeam data filenames usually start with a survey
file number that restarts at 0001 whenever datalogging is stopped and restarted.
Consequently, when data from multiple instances of logging are present in a
single directory, the simple listing of files will not in general be in time
order. If the file suffix is declared to be ".all", ".ALL", ".kmall", or ".KMALL"
using the \fB\-S\fP (or \fB\-\-suffix\fP) option, then \fBmbmakedatalist\fP will
attempt to sort the swath files into time order before generating the final
datalist. This behavior can be disabled by specifying the \fB\-T\fP
(or \fB\-\-no\-time\-sort\fP) option. Kongsberg dataloggers often create junk data
files with names such as "9999.all" or "9999.ALL"; these filenames are ignored.

.SH MB-SYSTEM AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes
.br
  Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping
.br
  University of New Hampshire
.br
Christian do Santos Ferreira
.br
  MARUM - Center for Marine Environmental Sciences
.br
  University of Bremen

.SH OPTIONS
Each option has both a traditional single-letter form and a GNU-style long form;
the two forms are fully equivalent and may be used interchangeably.
.TP
.BR \-B " " \fIsize\fP ", " \-\-min\-size=\fIsize\fP
Sets a size threshold in kilobytes below which a file will be ignored and not
included in the output datalist file.
.TP
.BR \-F " " \fIformat\fP ", " \-\-format=\fIformat\fP
By default, \fBmbmakedatalist\fP infers the format id of included files using
the naming conventions. This option specifies the format id that is assigned to
all files.
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-help
Causes the program to print out a description of its operation and then exit
immediately.
.TP
.BR \-I " " \fIdirectory\fP ", " \-\-input=\fIdirectory\fP
Sets the path of the target directory to scan for swath files.
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-skip\-latest
Causes the last file in the directory listing to be omitted from the output
datalist. The intent of this option is to exclude the most recent file in an
actively data logging context, since the most recent file is still being logged.
This presumes that filenames sort in time order, an assumption that does not hold
for all file naming conditions or if the \fB\-T\fP (\fB\-\-no\-time\-sort\fP)
option has been used to disable time ordering.
.TP
.BR \-O " " \fIdatalist\fP ", " \-\-output=\fIdatalist\fP
Sets the name of the output datalist file. Default: datalist.mb-1
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-ignore\-processed
Suppresses the inclusion of processed files in the output datalist (e.g.
*p.mb88).
.TP
.BR \-S " " \fIsuffix\fP ", " \-\-suffix=\fIsuffix\fP
Sets the filename suffix of swath files considered for inclusion in the output
datalist. Under most circumstances using this option explicitly is the best
approach as it prevents \fBmbmakedatalist\fP from including files that are not
intended for inclusion by the user yet satisfy one of the many recognized naming
conventions.
If the file suffix declared with this option corresponds to one of the formats
associated with Kongsberg multibeam sonar data, then \fBmbmakedatalist\fP will
attempt to sort the swath files into time order before generating the final
datalist. This behavior applies to files with the ".all" or ".ALL" suffix used
for raw logged Kongsberg files, and also to files with suffixes following the
\fBMB-System\fP convention (e.g. ".mb56", ".mb57", ".mb58", ".mb59" suffixes).
This behavior is disabled by the \fB\-T\fP (\fB\-\-no\-time\-sort\fP) option.
.TP
.BR \-T ", " \-\-no\-time\-sort
By default, when the \fB\-S\fP (\fB\-\-suffix\fP) option is used to specify a file
suffix corresponding to Kongsberg multibeam data, \fBmbmakedatalist\fP attempts
to sort the data files into time order before outputting the datalist. This option
disables that behavior.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-verbose
Causes \fBmbmakedatalist\fP to print out status messages.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose we have a set of swath files in a directory and we
want to construct a datalist referring to those files. A simple
directory listing shows four files:
.br
 	20051019_154030.mb88
 	20051019_162540.mb88
 	20051019_171756.mb88
 	junk.txt
.br
of which three are identifiable as swath files because of the
".mb88" file suffix. Running \fBmbmakedatalist\fP in this
directory with no arguments other than verbosity:
.br
 	mbmakedatalist \-V
.br
or equivalently using the long form:
.br
 	mbmakedatalist \-\-verbose
.br
produces a datalist file named datalist.mb-1. The contents of
this file are:
.br
 	20051019_154030.mb88 88
 	20051019_162540.mb88 88
 	20051019_171756.mb88 88
.br
where the file junk.txt has been ignored.

Suppose instead the data are Kongsberg .all files spread across
multiple logging sessions in a subdirectory called \fIrawdata\fP,
and we want only raw (unprocessed) files, a datalist named
\fIkongsberg.mb-1\fP, and we wish to exclude the file still being
actively logged. The following two commands are equivalent:
.br
 	mbmakedatalist \-I rawdata \-S .all \-P \-L \-O kongsberg.mb-1
.br
 	mbmakedatalist \-\-input=rawdata \-\-suffix=.all \e
 	    \-\-ignore\-processed \-\-skip\-latest \-\-output=kongsberg.mb-1
.br
In both cases \fBmbmakedatalist\fP will automatically sort the
Kongsberg files into time order before writing the datalist.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbdatalist\fP(1), \fBmbinfo\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Only fake bugs here.
