.TH mbmapscale 1 "2026" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbmapscale\fP \- Outputs the local scaling between geographic coordinates
and meters east and north at a specified latitude.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbmapscale\fP [\fB\-L\fIlatitude\fP \fB\-A \-V \-H\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The program \fBmbmapscale\fP outputs the scaling between geographic
coordinates (longitude and latitude) and local meters east and north
at a user defined latitude. This is useful for converting between
degrees and meters when working with local Cartesian approximations
of swath data positions.

By default the scaling is calculated using the WGS72 ellipsoid. If the
\fB\-A\fP flag is given, the scaling is instead calculated using the 1866
Clark Spheroid as employed by the AlvinXY local coordinate convention.

The map scale is written to stdout in the form of meters per degree
longitude and latitude, and the inverse (degrees per meter, i.e.
"meters to degree").

.SH MB-SYSTEM AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes
.br
  Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping
.br
  University of New Hampshire
.br
Christian do Santos Ferreira
.br
  MARUM - Center for Marine Environmental Sciences
.br
  University of Bremen

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag causes the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-A
Calculate the map scale using the 1866 Clark Spheroid as employed by
the AlvinXY local coordinate convention, rather than the default WGS72
ellipsoid.
.TP
.B \-L
\fIlatitude\fP
.br
Sets the latitude (in decimal degrees, positive north) at which the
map scale is calculated. If \fB\-L\fP is not specified, the scale is
calculated at the equator (latitude 0.0).
.TP
.B \-V
Normally, \fBmbmapscale\fP only prints out the calculated scale values.
If the \fB\-V\fP flag is given, then \fBmbmapscale\fP works in a "verbose"
mode and also outputs the program version and control parameters being
used.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose one wishes to obtain the map scale at 36.8 degrees north
latitude using the default WGS72 ellipsoid. The following command:
 	mbmapscale \-L36.8
.br
yields a result of the form:
.nf

Local scaling between degrees longitude and latitude and meters east and north:
	Using WGS72 ellipsoid
	Meters per degree longitude: 89244.230
	Meters per degree latitude:  110973.870
	Meters to degree longitude:  0.000011205
	Meters to degree latitude:   0.000009011
.fi

Suppose instead one wishes to obtain the map scale at the same latitude
using the AlvinXY (1866 Clark Spheroid) convention:
 	mbmapscale \-L36.8 \-A

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbtime\fP(1), \fBmbio\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Never bugs, but perhaps our good friends, the terrestrial isopods.
