.TH mbnavlab2fnv 1 "2026" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbnavlab2fnv\fP \- converts a Kongsberg Navlab smoothed navigation binary
file to an MB-System fast navigation (fnv) text file.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbnavlab2fnv\fP [\fB\-I\fP\fIfile\fP] [\fB\-O\fP\fIfile\fP] [\fB\-V\fP] [\fB\-H\fP]
.br
\fBmbnavlab2fnv\fP [\fB\-\-input\fP=\fIfile\fP] [\fB\-\-output\fP=\fIfile\fP]
[\fB\-\-verbose\fP] [\fB\-\-help\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbnavlab2fnv\fP converts a Kongsberg Navlab smoothed navigation binary
file (typically named \fInavlab_smooth.bin\fP) to an MB-System fast
navigation (fnv) ASCII text file.

Kongsberg Navlab is a post-processing software package that computes a
smoothed navigation and attitude solution for Kongsberg Hugin autonomous
underwater vehicles (AUVs). The output binary file contains a time series
sampled at 100 Hz (10 ms intervals) with no file header. Each record
consists of 21 IEEE 754 double-precision (64-bit) floating-point values
stored in little-endian byte order (record size: 168 bytes). The fields
extracted by \fBmbnavlab2fnv\fP are:

.nf
  field  0: time (Unix epoch seconds)
  field  1: latitude (decimal degrees, positive north)
  field  2: longitude (decimal degrees, positive east)
  field  3: depth (meters, positive down) \- used as draft
  field  6: heading (degrees, 0\-360, clockwise from north)
  field  7: roll (degrees, positive starboard up)
  field  8: pitch (degrees, positive bow up)
  field 10: speed through water (m/s)
.fi

Heave is not stored in the navlab_smooth.bin format and is written as
0.0 in the fnv output.

The fnv format is a tab-separated ASCII text file. The first line is a
comment beginning with \fB##\fP that names the columns. Each subsequent
data line contains the following tab-separated fields:

.nf
  yyyy mm dd hh mm ss.ssssss
  epoch_seconds
  longitude (deg)
  latitude (deg)
  heading (deg)
  speed (km/hr)
  draft (m)
  roll (deg)
  pitch (deg)
  heave (m)
.fi

The date and time in the first field are space-delimited within their
tab field. Speed is converted from m/s to km/hr. The optional port and
starboard swath edge columns present in some fnv files are not written
by \fBmbnavlab2fnv\fP as no swath geometry is available from the
navlab_smooth.bin format.

If no input file is specified, \fBmbnavlab2fnv\fP reads from standard
input. If no output file is specified, it writes to standard output.
Bytes are automatically swapped on big-endian host architectures so
that the output is always correct on any platform.

Records with retrograde (non-increasing) timestamps are silently skipped
unless verbose mode is active.

.SH MB-SYSTEM AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-H
.TP
.B \-\-help
Prints the program name, usage, and a description of the navlab_smooth.bin
field layout, then exits.
.TP
.B \-V
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Increases the verbosity of \fBmbnavlab2fnv\fP. With this option the
program prints the input and output file names to standard error when
they are opened, reports any skipped records with their timestamps,
and prints a final summary of the number of records read and written.
.TP
.B \-I \fIfile\fP
.TP
.B \-\-input=\fIfile\fP
Sets the path of the input Kongsberg Navlab binary file. If this option
is not given, the program reads from standard input.
.TP
.B \-O \fIfile\fP
.TP
.B \-\-output=\fIfile\fP
Sets the path of the output fnv file. If this option is not given,
the program writes to standard output.

.SH NAVLAB BINARY FORMAT
The navlab_smooth.bin format has the following properties:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
No file header of any kind.
.IP \(bu 2
Each record is exactly 168 bytes: 21 values \(mu 8 bytes (float64).
.IP \(bu 2
All values are IEEE 754 double-precision floating point,
little-endian byte order.
.IP \(bu 2
Nominal sample rate: 100 Hz (10 ms steps).
.IP \(bu 2
The complete field inventory is:
.RE

.nf
  field  0: time_d      \- Unix epoch seconds
  field  1: latitude    \- decimal degrees, positive north
  field  2: longitude   \- decimal degrees, positive east
  field  3: depth       \- meters, positive down
  field  4: unknown     \- (not used)
  field  5: unknown     \- (not used)
  field  6: heading     \- degrees, 0\-360, clockwise from north
  field  7: roll        \- degrees, positive starboard up
  field  8: pitch       \- degrees, positive bow up
  field  9: vert_vel    \- vertical velocity, m/s, positive down
  field 10: speed       \- speed through water, m/s
  field 11: speed_2     \- speed through water, m/s (alternate source)
  field 12: unknown     \- (not used)
  field 13: unknown     \- (not used)
  field 14: std_lat     \- position uncertainty, latitude (deg)
  field 15: std_lon     \- position uncertainty, longitude (deg)
  field 16: std_hdg     \- heading uncertainty (deg)
  field 17: std_17      \- velocity/attitude uncertainty
  field 18: std_18      \- velocity/attitude uncertainty
  field 19: std_19      \- velocity/attitude uncertainty
  field 20: cov_20      \- Kalman covariance cross-term
.fi

.SH EXAMPLES
Convert a navlab binary file to an fnv file:
.PP
.nf
    mbnavlab2fnv \-I navlab_smooth.bin \-O mission.fnv
.fi
.PP
Use standard input and output (e.g. within a pipeline):
.PP
.nf
    cat navlab_smooth.bin | mbnavlab2fnv > mission.fnv
.fi
.PP
Convert with verbose progress reporting:
.PP
.nf
    mbnavlab2fnv \-\-verbose \-\-input=navlab_smooth.bin \-\-output=mission.fnv
.fi
.PP
Use the fnv output to supply navigation, attitude, sensor depth, and
heading to \fBmbpreprocess\fP for preprocessing Kongsberg KMALL sonar data:
.PP
.nf
    mbnavlab2fnv \-I navlab_smooth.bin \-O mission.fnv
    mbpreprocess \-\-format=261 \-\-input=datalist.mb\-1 \\
        \-\-nav\-file=mission.fnv \-\-nav\-file\-format=9 \\
        \-\-sensordepth\-file=mission.fnv \-\-sensordepth\-file\-format=9 \\
        \-\-attitude\-file=mission.fnv \-\-attitude\-file\-format=9 \\
        \-\-heading\-file=mission.fnv \-\-heading\-file\-format=9
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbfnv2navlab\fP(1), \fBmbpreprocess\fP(1), \fBmbprocess\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Heave is not available in the navlab_smooth.bin format and is always
written as 0.0 in the fnv output. Applications that require heave
(e.g. for motion correction of multibeam bathymetry) should obtain
heave from the raw sonar data stream instead.

The optional port and starboard swath edge columns in the fnv format
are not written by \fBmbnavlab2fnv\fP; they are only meaningful in fnv
files generated from processed swath data.
