.TH mbnavlist 1 "3 June 2013" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbnavlist\fP \- List navigation data in swath sonar data files.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbnavlist\fP [\fB\-B\fP\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP \fB\-D\fP\fIdecimate\fP
\fB\-E\fP\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP \fB\-F\fP\fIformat\fP
\fB\-G\fP\fIdelimeter\fP \fB\-H\fP \fB\-I\fP\fIfile\fP \fB\-K\fP\fIkind\fP
\fB\-L\fP\fIlonflip\fP \fB\-N\fP\fInavchannel\fP
\fB\-O\fP\fIoutput_format\fP \fB\-R\fP\fIwest/east/south/north\fP
\fB\-S\fP\fIspeed\fP \fB\-T\fP\fItimegap\fP \fB\-V\fP \fB\-Z\fP\fIsegment\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbnavlist\fP prints the specified contents of navigation records
in a swath sonar data file to stdout. By default, \fBmbnavlist\fP
produces ASCII files in
spreadsheet style, with data columns separated by tabs. Alternatively,
other column delimiters can be used (\fB\-G\fP option), or
the output can be binary, with each field represented
as a double precision float (\fB\-A\fP option).  The output stream can
be decimated using the \fB\-D\fP option. The output of
\fBmbnavlist\fP can be piped to plotting and data analysis programs. The
option \fB\-O\fP\fIoutput_format\fP can be
used to control the data types that
are sent to stdout.

By default, \fBmbnavlist\fP extracts navigation from the
data record type listed as the "navigation source" for a particular
data format. Swath data formats may contain synchronous navigation
(navigation is included in survey data records), asynchronous navigation
(navigation comes in records separate from and at different times
than the survey data records), or both (survey records contain merged
navigation while the original asynchronous navigation is preserved in
separate navigation records). Some data formats provide for multiple
navigation sources, so that there are more than one channel of
asynchronous data records. In this case one channel is always designated
as the primary or active navigation channel. The \fB\-N\fP option allows
the user to specify that \fBmbnavlist\fP outputs navigation from
the primary asynchronous navigation (\fB\-N\fP\fI0\fP) or from one
of three auxiliary navigation channels
(\fB\-N\fP\fI1\fP, \fB\-N\fP\fI2\fP, or \fB\-N\fP\fI3\fP). If the data
format only uses asynchronous navigation, then the default
navigation source will already be the primary asynchronous navigation
and \fB\-N\fP need not be used. If \fB\-N\fP is used but the data file
does not contain asynchronous navigation or the specified auxiliary
navigation channels, then \fBmbnavlist\fP will output nothing. To
determine if a datafile contains asynchronous navigation and/or auxiliary
navigation, run \fBmbinfo\fP using its \fB\-N\fP option to get counts
of all data record types in the file.

Just to make things more complicated, many data formats formats pass
heading and attitude data in records separate from position, and often
with different timestamps and sampling rates. If, for instance, the
attitude data are sampled at 10 Hz but position is only sampled at
1 Hz, extracting roll using \fBmbnavlist\fP will, by default, either
output roll values only at the sonar ping times (if the navigation source
is the survey data) or at the position record times (if the navigation
source is the asynchronous position data, but not at the attitude data
times. Moreover, the attitude data will be interpolated onto the times
of sonar pings or position fixes. In order to extract the full attitude
data stream, the \fB\-K\fP\fIkind\fP option may be used, where \fIkind\fP
is the identifier for the record type to be used as the trigger for output.
Any desired values not contained in the selected record will be interpolated
onto the times of the selected record. In order to identify the records
available in a particular data file, use \fBmbinfo\fP with the \fB\-N\fP
option. This will show if a data file contains records of type MB_DATA_ATTITUDE,
which has a record type identifier of 18, A list of the record type
identifiers used within \fBMB-System\fP is given below, although not
all of the record types have time stamps or can be used to define
\fBmbnavlist\fP output. For example, requesting \fBmbnavlist\fP output
associated with comment records will yield nonuseful results.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory
.br

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-A
.br
Causes the output to be binary (native double precision floating
point) rather than ASCII. Some
output options cannot be represented as single binary floats (e.g.
time strings and longitude or latitude broken into degrees
and minutes. These values are output as multiple fields as
appropriate.
Default: ASCII output with fields separated by tabs.
.TP
.B \-B
\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP
.br
This option sets the starting time for data allowed in the input data.
The \fB\-E\fP option sets the ending time for data. If the
starting time is before the ending time, then any data
with a time stamp before the starting time or after the
ending time is ignored. If instead the starting time is
after the ending time, then any data between the ending
and starting time will be ignored. This scheme allows time
windowing both inside and outside a specified interval.
Default: \fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP = 1962/2/21/10/30/0.
.TP
.B \-D
\fIdecimate\fP
.br
Sets the decimation of the output data. By default (i.e. \fIdecimate\fP=1),
every available data record is output. If \fIdecimate\fP>1, then only
every "\fIdecimate\fP"th record will be output. Default: \fIdecimate\fP=1.
.TP
.B \-E
\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP
.br
This option sets the ending time for data allowed in the input data.
The \fB\-B\fP option sets the starting time for data. If the
starting time is before the ending time, then any data
with a time stamp before the starting time or after the
ending time is ignored. If instead the starting time is
after the ending time, then any data between the ending
and starting time will be ignored. This scheme allows time
windowing both inside and outside a specified interval.
Default: \fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP = 2062/2/21/10/30/0.
.TP
.B \-F
\fIformat\fP
.br
Sets the format for the input swath sonar data using
\fBMBIO\fP integer format identifiers.
This program uses the \fBMBIO\fP library and will read any swath sonar
format supported by \fBMBIO\fP. A list of the swath sonar data formats
currently supported by \fBMBIO\fP and their identifier values
is given in the \fBMBIO\fP manual page. Default: \fIformat\fP = 11.
.TP
.B \-G
\fIdelimiter\fP
.br
Sets the character(s) used to separate output fields when ascii
columns are output. Default: tabs are used as delimiters.
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIfile\fP
.br
Sets the input filename. If \fIformat\fP > 0 (set with the
\fB\-F\fP option) then the swath sonar data contained in \fIfile\fP
is read and processed. If \fIformat\fP < 0, then \fIfile\fP
is assumed to be an ascii file containing a list of the input swath sonar
data files to be processed and their formats.  The program will read
the data in each one of these files.
In the \fIfile\fP file, each
data file should be followed by a data format identifier, e.g.:
 	datafile1 11
 	datafile2 24
.br
This program uses the \fBMBIO\fP library and will read or write any swath sonar
format supported by \fBMBIO\fP. A list of the swath sonar data formats
currently supported by \fBMBIO\fP and their identifier values
is given in the \fBMBIO\fP manual page.
Default: \fIfile\fP = "datalist.mb-1".
.TP
.B \-K
\fIkind\fP
.br
This option sets the type of data record used as the trigger for
output. By default, data are output when the record type listed as
the "navigation source" for a particular data format is encountered.
The \fB\-K\fP option causes output to be keyed to data records of
type \fIkind\fP, where \fIkind\fP may be integer values such as:
     MB_DATA_DATA			1	/* general survey data */
     MB_DATA_CALIBRATE		4	/* Hydrosweep DS */
     MB_DATA_MEAN_VELOCITY		5	/* Hydrosweep DS */
     MB_DATA_VELOCITY_PROFILE	6	/* general */
     MB_DATA_NAV			12	/* Simrad, Reson 7k */
     MB_DATA_HEADING			17	/* Simrad, Hypack */
     MB_DATA_ATTITUDE		18	/* Simrad, Hypack, Reson 7k */
     MB_DATA_SSV			19	/* Simrad */
     MB_DATA_NAV1			28	/* ancillary nav system 1 */
     MB_DATA_NAV2			29	/* ancillary nav system 2 */
     MB_DATA_NAV3			30	/* ancillary nav system 3 */
     MB_DATA_MOTION			32	/* Reson 7k */
     MB_DATA_SIDESCAN2		37	/* Reson 7k, XTF */
     MB_DATA_SIDESCAN3		38	/* Reson 7k, XTF */
     MB_DATA_ROLL			40	/* Reson 7k */
     MB_DATA_PITCH			41	/* Reson 7k */
     MB_DATA_NMEA_RMC		48	/* NMEA */
     MB_DATA_NMEA_DBT		49	/* NMEA */
     MB_DATA_NMEA_DPT		50	/* NMEA */
     MB_DATA_NMEA_ZDA		51	/* NMEA */
     MB_DATA_NMEA_GLL		52	/* NMEA */
     MB_DATA_NMEA_GGA		53	/* NMEA */
     MB_DATA_ATTITUDE1		55	/* ancillary attitude system 1 */
     MB_DATA_ATTITUDE2		56      /* ancillary attitude system 2 */
     MB_DATA_ATTITUDE3		57	/* ancillary attitude system 3 */
.br
For example, using \fB\-K\fP\fI18\fP will cause \fBmbnavlist\fP to output
at the times of attitude data records. One consequence will be that
any roll, pitch, or heave values specified with the \fB\-O\fP option will
be output without modification, whereas other values (e.g. position) will
be interpolated onto the time of the attitude record.
This option supercedes the \fB\-N\fP option.
.TP
.B \-L
\fIlonflip\fP
.br
Sets the range of the longitude values returned.
If \fIlonflip\fP=\-1 then the longitude values will be in
the range from \-360 to 0 degrees. If \fIlonflip\fP=0
then the longitude values will be in
the range from \-180 to 180 degrees. If \fIlonflip\fP=1
then the longitude values will be in
the range from 0 to 360 degrees.
Default: \fIlonflip\fP = 0.
.TP
.B \-N
\fInavchannel\fP
.br
Sets \fBmbnavlist\fP to look for navigation in navigation records rather
than the record type listed as the "navigation source" for a particular
data format. Swath data formats may contain synchronous navigation
(navigation is included in survey data records), asynchronous navigation
(navigation comes in records separate from and at different times
than the survey data records), or both (survey records contain merged
navigation while the original asynchronous navigation is preserved in
separate navigation records). Some data formats provide for multiple
navigation sources, so that there are more than one channel of
asynchronous data records. In this case one channel is always designated
as the primary or active navigation channel. The \fB\-N\fP option allows
the user to specify that \fBmbnavlist\fP outputs navigation from
the primary asynchronous navigation (\fB\-N\fP\fI0\fP) or from one
of three auxiliary navigation channels
(\fB\-N\fP\fI1\fP, \fB\-N\fP\fI2\fP, or \fB\-N\fP\fI3\fP). If \fB\-N\fP is
used but the data file
does not contain asynchronous navigation or the specified auxiliary
navigation channels, then \fBmbnavlist\fP will output nothing. To
determine if a datafile contains asynchronous navigation and/or auxiliary
navigation, run \fBmbinfo\fP using its \fB\-N\fP option to get counts
of all data record types in the file. This option is superceded by the
\fB\-K\fP option.
.TP
.B \-O
\fIoutput_format\fP
.br
Determines the form of the output. \fIOutput_format\fP is a string composed
of one or more of the following characters:

 	\fBc\fP  for sonar depth (meters)
 	\fBH\fP  for heading (degrees)
 	\fBh\fP  for course made good (degrees)
  	\fBJ\fP  for a time string (yyyy jd hh mm ss.ssssss)
                 where jd is the julian day of the year
  	\fBj\fP  for a time string (yyyy jd dm ss.ssssss)
                 where jd is the julian day of the year
                 and dm is the minute of the day
 	\fBL\fP  for cumulative along-track distance (km)
 	\fBl\fP  for cumulative along-track distance (m)
 	\fBM\fP  for unix time in decimal seconds since 1/1/70 00:00:00
 	\fBm\fP  for time in decimal seconds since first record
 	\fBN\fP  for ping count
 	\fBP\fP  for pitch in degrees
 	\fBp\fP  for draft in meters
 	\fBR\fP  for roll in degrees
 	\fBr\fP  for heave in meters
  	\fBS\fP  for speed (km/hr)
  	\fBs\fP  for speed made good (km/hr)
  	\fBT\fP  for a time string (yyyy/mm/dd/hh/mm/ss)
 	\fBt\fP  for a time string (yyyy mm dd hh mm ss)
 	\fBU\fP  for unix time in integer seconds since 1/1/70 00:00:00
 	\fBu\fP  for time in integer seconds since first record
 	\fBV\fP  for ping interval (decimal seconds)
 	\fBX\fP  for longitude (decimal degrees)
 	\fBx\fP  for longitude (degrees + decimal minutes + E/W)
 	\fBY\fP  for latitude (decimal degrees)
 	\fBy\fP  for latitude (degrees + decimal minutes + N/S)

Default \fIoutput_format\fP = \fBtMXYHs\fP (time, unix time, latitude,
longitude, heading, speed).
.TP
.B \-R
\fIwest/east/south/north\fP
.br
Sets the longitude and latitude bounds within which swath sonar
data will be read. Only the data which lies within these bounds will
be read.
Default: \fIwest\fP=\-360, east\fI=360\fP, \fIsouth\fP=\-90, \fInorth\fP=90.
.TP
.B \-S
\fIspeed\fP
.br
Sets the minimum speed in km/hr (5.5 kts ~ 10 km/hr) allowed in
the input data; pings associated with a smaller ship speed will not be
copied. Default: \fIspeed\fP = 0.
.TP
.B \-T
\fItimegap\fP
.br
Sets the maximum time gap in minutes between adjacent pings allowed before
the data is considered to have a gap. Default: \fItimegap\fP = 1.
.TP
.B \-V
Normally, \fBmbnavlist\fP works "silently" without outputting
anything to the stderr stream.  If the
\fB\-V\fP flag is given, then \fBmbnavlist\fP works in a "verbose" mode and
outputs the program version being used and all error status messages.
.TP
.B \-Z
\fIsegment\fP
.br
Causes the ascii output of different input swath files
(e.g. when a datalist is specified with the \fB\-I\fP option)
to be separated by lines with \fIsegment\fP. If \fIsegment\fP
is a single character, then the output is a multiple segment
file of the sort accepted by the \fBGMT\fP program \fBpsxy\fP.
This option only works with ascii output, and is thus disabled
when the \fB\-A\fP option is specified. The most common usage
is \fB\-Z\fP\I>\fP.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose one wishes to obtain a navigation list from a Simrad EM300 data file
in the MBARI format (MBIO id 57) called mbari_1998_107_msn.mb57. To
obtain a listing with time in unix second forms followed
by longitude and latitude, the following will suffice:

 	mbnavlist \-F57 \-i mbari_1998_107_msn.mb57 \-OMXY | more

The output will be as follows:

 	889125106.792000        \-155.898471       19.979325
 	889125108.148000        \-155.898586       19.979400
 	889125109.496000        \-155.898738       19.979454
 	889125110.852000        \-155.898876       19.979504
 	889125112.207000        \-155.899020       19.979544
 	889125113.571000        \-155.899204       19.979591
 	889125114.921000        \-155.899479       19.979485
 	.....
.SH MB-SYSTEM DATA RECORD TYPES
This list gives the data record types and numerical identifiers
used within \fBMB-System\fP. Users can specify that \fBmbnavlist\fP
output be keyed to the time stamps of particular record types by
using the \fB\-K\fP\fIkind\fP option where \fIkind\fP corresponds
to the desired record type identifier from this table.

     MB_DATA_KINDS			54
     MB_DATA_NONE			0
     MB_DATA_DATA			1	general survey data
     MB_DATA_COMMENT			2	general comment
     MB_DATA_HEADER			3	general header
     MB_DATA_CALIBRATE		4	Hydrosweep DS
     MB_DATA_MEAN_VELOCITY		5	Hydrosweep DS
     MB_DATA_VELOCITY_PROFILE	6	general
     MB_DATA_STANDBY			7	Hydrosweep DS
     MB_DATA_NAV_SOURCE		8	Hydrosweep DS
     MB_DATA_PARAMETER		9	general
     MB_DATA_START			10	Simrad
     MB_DATA_STOP			11	Simrad
     MB_DATA_NAV			12	Simrad, Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_RUN_PARAMETER		13	Simrad
     MB_DATA_CLOCK			14	Simrad
     MB_DATA_TIDE			15	Simrad, Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_HEIGHT			16	Simrad
     MB_DATA_HEADING			17	Simrad, Hypack
     MB_DATA_ATTITUDE		18	Simrad, Hypack, Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_SSV			19	Simrad
     MB_DATA_ANGLE			20	HSMD
     MB_DATA_EVENT			21	HSMD
     MB_DATA_HISTORY			22	GSF
     MB_DATA_SUMMARY			23	GSF
     MB_DATA_PROCESSING_PARAMETERS	24	GSF
     MB_DATA_SENSOR_PARAMETERS	25	GSF
     MB_DATA_NAVIGATION_ERROR	26	GSF
     MB_DATA_RAW_LINE		27	uninterpretable line for ascii formats
     MB_DATA_NAV1			28	ancillary nav system 1
     MB_DATA_NAV2			29	ancillary nav system 2
     MB_DATA_NAV3			30	ancillary nav system 3
     MB_DATA_TILT			31	Simrad
     MB_DATA_MOTION			32	Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_CTD			33	Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_SUBBOTTOM_MCS		34	Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_SUBBOTTOM_CNTRBEAM	35	Simrad
     MB_DATA_SUBBOTTOM_SUBBOTTOM	36	Reson 7k, XTF
     MB_DATA_SIDESCAN2		37	Reson 7k, XTF
     MB_DATA_SIDESCAN3		38	Reson 7k, XTF
     MB_DATA_IMAGE			39	Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_ROLL			40	Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_PITCH			41	Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_ABSORPTIONLOSS		42	Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_SPREADINGLOSS		43	Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_INSTALLATION		44	Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_WATER_COLUMN		45	Simrad
     MB_DATA_STATUS			46	Simrad, XTF
     MB_DATA_DVL			47	JSTAR
     MB_DATA_NMEA_RMC		48	NMEA
     MB_DATA_NMEA_DBT		49	NMEA
     MB_DATA_NMEA_DPT		50	NMEA
     MB_DATA_NMEA_ZDA		51	NMEA
     MB_DATA_NMEA_GLL		52	NMEA
     MB_DATA_NMEA_GGA		53	NMEA
     MB_DATA_SURVEY_LINE		54	Reson 7k
     MB_DATA_ATTITUDE1		55	ancillary attitude system 1
     MB_DATA_ATTITUDE2		56      ancillary attitude system 2
     MB_DATA_ATTITUDE3		57	ancillary attitude system 3

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbinfo\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
\fBmbnavlist\fP is not able to list all of the navigation information
available in some swath data formats.
