.TH mbpreprocess 1 "3 January 2021" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbpreprocess\fP \- performs preprocessing of swath sonar data as part of setting
up an MB-System processing structure for a dataset.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbpreprocess\fP [
.br
\fB--verbose\fP
.br
\fB--help\fP
.br
\fB--input\fP=\fIFILE\fP
.br
\fB--format\fP=\fIFORMATID\fP
.br
\fB--output-directory\fP=\fIDIRECTORY\fP
.br
\fB--platform-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP
.br
\fB--platform-target-sensor\fP=\fIRECORDID\fP
.br
\fB--output-sensor-fnv\fP
.br
\fB--skip-existing\fP
.br
\fB--nav-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP
.br
\fB--nav-file-format\fP=\fIFORMATID\fP
.br
\fB--nav-async\fP=\fIRECORDTYPE\fP
.br
\fB--nav-sensor\fP=\fISENSORID\fP
.br
\fB--sensordepth-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP
.br
\fB--sensordepth-file-format\fP=\fIFORMATID\fP
.br
\fB--sensordepth-async\fP=\fIRECORDTYPE\fP
.br
\fB--sensordepth-sensor\fP=\fISENSORID\fP
.br
\fB--heading-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP
.br
\fB--heading-file-format\fP=\fIFORMATID\fP
.br
\fB--heading-async\fP=\fIRECORDTYPE\fP
.br
\fB--heading-sensor\fP=\fISENSORID\fP
.br
\fB--altitude-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP
.br
\fB--altitude-file-format\fP=\fIFORMATID\fP
.br
\fB--altitude-async\fP=\fIRECORDTYPE\fP
.br
\fB--altitude-sensor\fP=\fISENSORID\fP
.br
\fB--attitude-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP
.br
\fB--attitude-file-format\fP=\fIFORMATID\fP
.br
\fB--attitude-async\fP=\fIRECORDTYPE\fP
.br
\fB--attitude-sensor\fP=\fISENSORID\fP
.br
\fB--soundspeed-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP
.br
\fB--soundspeed-file-format\fP=\fIFORMATID\fP
.br
\fB--soundspeed-async\fP=\fIRECORDTYPE\fP
.br
\fB--soundspeed-sensor\fP=\fISENSORID\fP
.br
\fB--time-latency-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP
.br
\fB--time-latency-file-format\fP=\fIFORMATID\fP
.br
\fB--time-latency-constant\fP=\fISECONDS\fP
.br
\fB--time-latency-apply-nav\fP
.br
\fB--time-latency-apply-sensordepth\fP
.br
\fB--time-latency-apply-heading\fP
.br
\fB--time-latency-apply-attitude\fP
.br
\fB--time-latency-apply-altitude\fP
.br
\fB--time-latency-apply-all-ancilliary\fP
.br
\fB--time-latency-apply-survey\fP
.br
\fB--time-latency-apply-all\fP
.br
\fB--filter\fP=\fISECONDS\fP
.br
\fB--filter-apply-nav\fP
.br
\fB--filter-apply-sensordepth\fP
.br
\fB--filter-apply-heading\fP
.br
\fB--filter-apply-attitude\fP
.br
\fB--filter-apply-altitude\fP
.br
\fB--filter-apply-all-ancilliary\fP
.br
\fB--recalculate-bathymetry\fP
.br
\fB--no-change-survey\fP
.br
\fB--multibeam-sidescan-source\fP=\fISOURCE\fP
.br
\fB--sounding-amplitude-filter\fP=\fITHRESHOLD\fP
.br
\fB--sounding-altitude-filter\fP=\fITHRESHOLD\fP
.br
\fB--ignore-water-column\fP
.br
\fB--head1-offsets\fP=\fIX/Y/Z/HEADING/ROLL/PITCH\fP
.br
\fB--head2-offsets\fP=\fIX/Y/Z/HEADING/ROLL/PITCH\fP
.br
\fB--kluge-time-jumps\fP=\fISECONDS\fP
.br
\fB--kluge-ancilliary-time-jumps\fP=\fISECONDS\fP
.br
\fB--kluge-mbaripressure-time-jumps\fP=\fITHRESHOLD\fP
.br
\fB--kluge-beam-tweak\fP=\fIFACTOR\fP
.br
\fB--kluge-soundspeed-tweak\fP=\fIFACTOR\fP
.br
\fB--kluge-zero-attitude-correction\fP
.br
\fB--kluge-zero-alongtrack-angles\fP
.br
\fB--kluge-fix-wissl-timestamps\fP
.br
\fB--kluge-auv-sentry-sensordepth\fP
.br
\fB--kluge-ignore-snippets\fP
.br
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
MBpreprocess handles preprocessing of swath sonar data as part of setting
up an MB-System processing structure for a dataset. This program replaces
the several format-specific preprocessing programs
found in MB-System version 5 releases with a single program for version 6.
In many cases the preprocessing consists only of creating the ancillary files
parallel to the raw files, but in others the data must be translated to
different formats. The proprocessing step can also be used to merge navigation,
attitude, sound speed, or other ancillary data with the survey data.

.SH MB-SYSTEM AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes
.br
  Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping
.br
  University of New Hampshire
.br
Christian do Santos Ferreira
.br
  MARUM - Center for Marine Environmental Sciences
.br
  University of Bremen

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --help
This option causes \fBmbconfig\fP to print out its usage options and exit.
.TP
.B --verbose
By default \fBmbpreprocess\fP outputs minimal information to the shell. This option
causes the program to indicate it's progress as it runs.

.TP
.B --input=\fIFILE\fP
Swath data file from which the input data will be read, or a datalist file
containing a list of input swath data files and/or other datalist files.
If \fIFILE\fP is a datalist file, then mbpreprocess will attempt to preprocess
all data files identified by recursively reading the datalist structure
referenced in \fIFILE\fP.
.TP
.B --format=\fIFORMATID\fP
Sets the \fBMBIO\fP integer format identifier
for the input file \fIFILE\fP specified with the
\fB\--input\fP option. By default, \fBmbpreprocess\fP
infers the format from the "*.mbXX" \fBMB\-System\fP suffix
convention.
.TP
.B --output-directory\fP=\fIDIRECTORY\fP
By default the output files written by \fBmbpreprocess\fP are located in the same
directory as the input swath files. This options allows the user to specify a
different directory into which the output files are written.
.TP
.B --platform-file=\fIFILE\fP
Causes \fBmbpreprocess\fP to input and utilize an \fBMB-System\fP platform file,
which provides a complete description of the relative geometry of sensors on a
survey platform. Platform files can be constructed using the program \fBmbmakeplatform\fP.
Most datasets do not require the use of a platform file, and only a few data formats
are supported with preprocessing functionality utilizing platform files (e.g. the
Reson 7k format 88, the Teledyne 7k3 format 89, the 3D at Depth lidar formats
232 and 233). Platform files are needed only when survey data have been collected
without integrating the asynchronous navigation and attitude data and when the
positional and angular offsets between the survey sensor (e.g. multibeam sonar,
lidar, stereo camera rig) have not been specified in the data stream. Most often
this situation is associated with survey systems on submerged platforms like
autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) or remotely operated vehicles (ROVs).
In cases where the sonar control and data logging software have a full platform
description and apply that to fully correct the survey data in real time, no
platform file is needed for the preprocessing stage in \fBMB-System\fP. Specifically,
all datasets collected using Kongsberg multibeam sonars do not require use of a
platform file (the only exception to this would be if the positional offsets between
sensors were incorrectly specified in the multibeam configuration).
.TP
.B --platform-target-sensor=\fISENSORID\fP
If a platform file has been specified, this option defines the id of the sensor
description associated with the survey data being preprocessed. This determines
how lever arm calculations are done. For instance, if sensor 0 is the source of
attitude and lateral position data (e.g. an inertial navigation system), sensor 1
is the source of vertical position data (e.g. a pressure sensor), and sensor 2 is
a multibeam sonar for which the bathymetry data are not initially motion corrected,
then one should use \fB--platform-target-sensor\fP=\fI2\fP so that the lever arm
calculations produce the position and attitude of the multibeam sonar. The
multibeam bathymetry are then calculated using the corrected position and
attitude data. This option is necessary because in general a platform may have
multiple survey sensors (e.g. multibeam sonar, lidar, stereo camera rig, subbottom
profiler, sidescan sonar), each of which will have a separate data processing
workflow.
.TP
.B --output-sensor-fnv
Causes \fBmbpreprocess\fP to output "fast navigation" or *.fnv files for each
of the sensors described in the platform file specified with the \fB--platform-file\fP
option. These *.fnv files will be corrected for the lever arms specified by the
positional and angular offsets defined in the platform file.
.TP
.B --skip-existing
This option causes \fBmbpreprocess\fP to skip preprocessing when the output files
already exist and are up to date relative to the inputs.
.br
.TP
.B \-\-nav-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
Specifies an external time series file from which to merge sonar position (navigation),
replacing navigation data included in the data stream.
By default \fBmbpreprocess\fP attempts to use navigation values included in the
input data.
.TP
.B \-\-nav-file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
Specifies the format of an external navigation time series file from which position values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-nav-file\fP). Options for the \fIformat_id\fP
value are:
.br
   1: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        time_d longitude latitude speed
      where time_d is time in decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), longitude
      and latitude are in decimal degrees, and speed is in km/hour (and is optional).
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains.
.br
   2: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year month day hour minute second longitude latitude
      where year, month, day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and longitude and latitude are in decimal degrees.
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains.
.br
   3: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day hour minute second longitude latitude
      where year, julian_day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and longitude and latitude are in decimal degrees.
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains.
.br
   4: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day day_minute second longitude latitude
      where year, julian_day, and day_minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and longitude and latitude are in decimal degrees.
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains.
.br
   5: ASCCI text file in the 1990's era L-DEO processed nav format with lines
      of the form:
        yy+jjjhhmmssNddmmmmmmEdddmmmmmm
      where yy is the two digit year (after 1999 the "yy+" was replaced by a four
      digit year "yyyy"), jjj is the julian_day, hh is the hour, mm
      is minutes, and ss is seconds. The latitude is given as
      Nddmmmmmmand where N is 'N' for north and 'S' for south, dd are integer
      degrees, and mmmmmm is minutes * 10000. The longitude is given as
      Edddmmmmmmand where E is 'E' for east and 'W' for west, ddd are integer
      degrees, and mmmmmm is minutes * 10000.
.br
   6 or 7: NMEA 0183 position strings
      Several NMEA and NMEA-like strings containing position are recognized,
      and can be parsed with and without line break characters. These strings
      include ZDA, GLL, GGA, DAT, and UNX.
.br
   8: Simrad 90 format navigation files with lines
      of the form:
        ddmmyy hhmmssss ddmmmmmmmN dddmmmmmmmE
      where dd is day of the month, mm is the month, yy is the two digit year,
      hh is the hour, mm is the minute, and ssss is seconds * 100.
      The latitude is given as ddmmmmmmmN where dd are integer degrees,
      mmmmmmm is minutes * 100000, and N is 'N' for north and 'S' for south latitude.
      The longitude is given as dddmmmmmmmE where ddd are integer degrees,
      mmmmmmm is minutes * 100000, and E is 'E' for east and 'W' for west longitude.


      day_minute values are integers,
      the second value is decimal, and longitude and latitude are in decimal
      degrees. The longitude is given as
      Edddmmmmmmand where E is 'E' for east and 'W' for west, ddd are integer
      degrees, and mmmmm is minutes * 10000.
.br
   9: ASCCI text file with white-space delimited lines of the form:
        yr mon day hour min sec time_d lon lat heading speed sensordepth
      or
        yr mon day hour min sec time_d lon lat heading speed sensordepth roll pitch heave
      where yr is the four digit year, mon is the month, day is the day of the
      month, min is the minute, second is the decimal seconds, time_d is time in
      decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), lon is the longitude
      in decimal degrees, lat is the latitude in decimal degrees, heading is in
      decimal degrees, speed is in km/hour, and sensordepth is in meters.
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains. If present, roll and pitch are in
      decimal degrees and heave is in meters.
.br
   10: R2R (Rolling deck to Repository) navigation format with ASCCI text lines
      of the form:
         yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss.sssZ lon lat quality nsat dilution height
      where the lon and lat fields are in decimal degrees with south latitudes
      and west longitudes negative, and the last four quantities relating to
      GPS fix quality.
.TP
.B \-\-nav-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
Specifies the type of data records from which position values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-nav-file-format\fP). Options for the
\fIrecord_kind\fP include:
.br
    MB_DATA_DATA:  1 (survey data)
    MB_DATA_NAV:  12 (navigation data)
    MB_DATA_NAV1: 29 (navigation data from navigation system 1)
    MB_DATA_NAV2: 30 (navigation data from navigation system 2)
    MB_DATA_NAV3: 31 (navigation data from navigation system 3)
.br
What types of data records are present is format-dependent, as is the default
choice of which record type is used as the navigation source. The
program \fBmbinfo\fP can be used with the \fB-N\fP option to determine the numbers
of different record types present in a data file.
.TP
.B --nav-sensor=\fISENSORID\fP
If a platform file has been specified, this option defines the id of the sensor
description associated with the navigation data being used, whether that
derives from asynchronous records in the data stream or from an external
navigation file. Note that if the external navigation has been calculated to
define the location of the target survey sensor, then the sensor id should be
the same as the survey sensor so that a null lever arm correction is made.
.br
.TP
.B --sensordepth-file=\fIFILE\fP
Specifies an external time series file from which to merge sensor depth,
replacing sensor depth data included in the data stream.
By default \fBmbpreprocess\fP attempts to use sensor depth values included in the
input data.
.TP
.B --sensordepth-file-format=\fIFORMATID\fP
.br
Specifies the format of an external sensor depth time series file from which sensor depth values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-sensordepth-file\fP). Options for the \fIformat_id\fP
value are:
.br
   1: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        time_d sensordepth
      where time_d is time in decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), and
      sensordepth values are in meters positive down.
.br
   2: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year month day hour minute second sensordepth
      where year, month, day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and sensordepth values are in meters positive down.
.br
   3: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day hour minute second sensordepth
      where year, julian_day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and sensordepth values are in meters positive down.
.br
   4: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day day_minute second sensordepth
      where year, julian_day, and day_minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and sensordepth values are in meters positive down.
.br
   9: ASCCI text file with white-space delimited lines of the form:
        yr mon day hour min sec time_d lon lat heading speed sensordepth
      or
        yr mon day hour min sec time_d lon lat heading speed sensordepth roll pitch heave
      where yr is the four digit year, mon is the month, day is the day of the
      month, min is the minute, second is the decimal seconds, time_d is time in
      decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), lon is the longitude
      in decimal degrees, lat is the latitude in decimal degrees, heading is in
      decimal degrees, speed is in km/hour, and sensordepth is in meters.
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains. If present, roll and pitch are in
      decimal degrees and heave is in meters.
.TP
.B --sensordepth-async=\fIRECORDTYPE\fP
Specifies the type of data records from which sensor depth values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-sensordepth-file-format\fP). Options for the
\fIrecord_kind\fP include:
.br
    MB_DATA_DATA:  1 (survey data)
    MB_DATA_NAV:  12 (navigation data)
    MB_DATA_HEIGHT 16 (sensor height data)
    MB_DATA_NAV1: 29 (navigation data from navigation system 1)
    MB_DATA_NAV2: 30 (navigation data from navigation system 2)
    MB_DATA_NAV3: 31 (navigation data from navigation system 3)
    MB_DATA_SONARDEPTH 59 (sensor depth data)
.br
What types of data records are present is format-dependent, as is the default
choice of which record type is used as the sensor depth source. The
program \fBmbinfo\fP can be used with the \fB-N\fP option to determine the numbers
of different record types present in a data file.
.TP
.B --sensordepth-sensor=\fISENSORID\fP
If a platform file has been specified, this option defines the id of the sensor
description associated with the sensor depth data being used, whether that
derives from asynchronous records in the data stream or from an external
navigation file. Note that if the external sensor depth data have been calculated to
define the vertical location of the target survey sensor, then the sensor id should be
the same as the survey sensor so that a null lever arm correction is made.
.br
.TP
.B --heading-file=\fIFILE\fP
Specifies an external time series file from which to merge heading,
replacing heading data included in the data stream.
By default \fBmbpreprocess\fP attempts to use heading values included in the
input data.
.TP
.B --heading-file-format=\fIFORMATID\fP
Specifies the format of an external heading time series file from which heading values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-heading-file\fP). Options for the \fIformat_id\fP
value are:
.br
   1: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        time_d heading
      where time_d is time in decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), and
      heading values are in degrees positive clockwise from forward.
.br
   2: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year month day hour minute second heading
      where year, month, day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and heading values in degrees positive clockwise from forward.
.br
   3: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day hour minute second heading
      where year, julian_day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and heading values in degrees positive clockwise from forward.
.br
   4: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day day_minute second heading
      where year, julian_day, and day_minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and heading values in degrees positive clockwise from forward.
.br
   9: ASCCI text file with white-space delimited lines of the form:
        yr mon day hour min sec time_d lon lat heading speed sensordepth
      or
        yr mon day hour min sec time_d lon lat heading speed sensordepth roll pitch heave
      where yr is the four digit year, mon is the month, day is the day of the
      month, min is the minute, second is the decimal seconds, time_d is time in
      decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), lon is the longitude
      in decimal degrees, lat is the latitude in decimal degrees, heading is in
      decimal degrees, speed is in km/hour, and heading is in meters.
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains. If present, roll and pitch are in
      decimal degrees and heave is in meters.
.TP
.B --heading-async=\fIRECORDTYPE\fP
Specifies the type of data records from which heading values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-heading-file-format\fP). Options for the
\fIrecord_kind\fP include:
.br
    MB_DATA_DATA:      1 (survey data)
    MB_DATA_NAV:      12 (navigation data)
    MB_DATA_HEADING:  17 (heading data)
    MB_DATA_NAV1:     29 (navigation data from navigation system 1)
    MB_DATA_NAV2:     30 (navigation data from navigation system 2)
    MB_DATA_NAV3:     31 (navigation data from navigation system 3)
.br
What types of data records are present is format-dependent, as is the default
choice of which record type is used as the heading source. The
program \fBmbinfo\fP can be used with the \fB-N\fP option to determine the numbers
of different record types present in a data file.
.TP
.B --heading-sensor=\fISENSORID\fP
If a platform file has been specified, this option defines the id of the sensor
description associated with the heading data being used, whether that
derives from asynchronous records in the data stream or from an external
navigation file.
.br
.TP
.B --altitude-file=\fIFILE\fP
Specifies an external time series file from which to merge altitude data,
replacing altitude data included in the data stream.
By default \fBmbpreprocess\fP attempts to use altitude values included in the
input data. Typically altitude data are critical only for processing sidescan
data in the absence of swath bathymetry.
.TP
.B --altitude-file-format=\fIFORMATID\fP
Specifies the format of an external altitude time series file from which altitude values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-altitude-file\fP). Options for the \fIformat_id\fP
value are:
.br
   1: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        time_d altitude
      where time_d is time in decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), and
      altitude values are in meters.
.br
   2: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year month day hour minute second altitude
      where year, month, day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and altitude values are in meters.
.br
   3: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day hour minute second altitude
      where year, julian_day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and altitude values are in meters.
.br
   4: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day day_minute second altitude
      where year, julian_day, and day_minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and altitude values are in meters.
.TP
.B --altitude-async=\fIRECORDTYPE\fP
Specifies the type of data records from which heading values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-heading-file-format\fP). Options for the
\fIrecord_kind\fP include:
.br
    MB_DATA_DATA:      1 (survey data)
    MB_DATA_NAV:      12 (navigation data)
    MB_DATA_NAV1:     29 (navigation data from navigation system 1)
    MB_DATA_NAV2:     30 (navigation data from navigation system 2)
    MB_DATA_NAV3:     31 (navigation data from navigation system 3)
    MB_DATA_ALTITUDE: 60 (altitude data)
.br
What types of data records are present is format-dependent, as is the default
choice of which record type is used as the altitude source. The
program \fBmbinfo\fP can be used with the \fB-N\fP option to determine the numbers
of different record types present in a data file.
.TP
.B --altitude-sensor=\fISENSORID\fP
If a platform file has been specified, this option defines the id of the sensor
description associated with the navigation data being used, whether that
derives from asynchronous records in the data stream or from an external
navigation file.
.br
.TP
.B --attitude-file=\fIFILE\fP
Specifies an external time series file from which to merge attitude data (roll and pitch, often also heave),
replacing attitude data included in the data stream.
By default \fBmbpreprocess\fP attempts to use attitude values included in the
input data.
.TP
.B --attitude-file-format=\fIFORMATID\fP
Specifies the format of an external attitude time series file from which attitude values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-attitude-file\fP). Options for the \fIformat_id\fP
value are:
.br
   1: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        time_d roll pitch heave
      where time_d is time in decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), and
      sensordepth values are in meters positive down.
.br
   2: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year month day hour minute second roll pitch heave
      where year, month, day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and sensordepth values are in meters positive down.
.br
   3: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day hour minute second roll pitch heave
      where year, julian_day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and sensordepth values are in meters positive down.
.br
   4: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day day_minute second roll pitch heave
      where year, julian_day, and day_minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and sensordepth values are in meters positive down.
.br
   9: ASCCI text file with white-space delimited lines of the form:
        yr mon day hour min sec time_d lon lat heading speed sensordepth roll pitch heave
      where yr is the four digit year, mon is the month, day is the day of the
      month, min is the minute, second is the decimal seconds, time_d is time in
      decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), lon is the longitude
      in decimal degrees, lat is the latitude in decimal degrees, heading is in
      decimal degrees, speed is in km/hour, and sensordepth is in meters.
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains. Roll and pitch are in
      decimal degrees and heave is in meters.
.TP
.B --attitude-async=\fIRECORDTYPE\fP
Specifies the type of data records from which attitude values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-attitude-file-format\fP). Options for the
\fIrecord_kind\fP include:
.br
    MB_DATA_DATA:       1 (survey data)
    MB_DATA_NAV:       12 (navigation data)
    MB_DATA_NAV1:      29 (navigation data from navigation system 1)
    MB_DATA_NAV2:      30 (navigation data from navigation system 2)
    MB_DATA_NAV3:      31 (navigation data from navigation system 3)
    MB_DATA_ATTITUDE:  18 (attitude data)
    MB_DATA_ATTITUDE1: 56 (attitude data from attitude system 1)
    MB_DATA_ATTITUDE2: 57 (attitude data from attitude system 2)
    MB_DATA_ATTITUDE3: 58 (attitude data from attitude system 3)
#.br
What types of data records are present is format-dependent, as is the default
choice of which record type is used as the attitude source. The
program \fBmbinfo\fP can be used with the \fB-N\fP option to determine the numbers
of different record types present in a data file.
.TP
.B --attitude-sensor=\fISENSORID\fP
If a platform file has been specified, this option defines the id of the sensor
description associated with the navigation data being used, whether that
derives from asynchronous records in the data stream or from an external
navigation file.
.br
.TP
.B --soundspeed-file=\fIFILE\fP
Specifies an external time series file from which to merge sound speed data,
replacing sound speed data included in the data stream.
By default \fBmbpreprocess\fP attempts to use sound speed values included in the
input data. The sound speed values represent the speed of sound at the survey
sensor (i.e. the sonar arrays); typically these are input only when the
preprocessing includes recalculation of multibeam bathymetry.
.TP
.B --soundspeed-file-format=\fIFORMATID\fP
Specifies the format of an external soundspeed time series file from which soundspeed values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-soundspeed-file\fP). Options for the \fIformat_id\fP
value are:
.br
   1: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        time_d soundspeed
      where time_d is time in decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), and
      soundspeed values are in meters positive down.
.br
   2: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year month day hour minute second soundspeed
      where year, month, day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and soundspeed values are in meters positive down.
.br
   3: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day hour minute second soundspeed
      where year, julian_day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and soundspeed values are in meters positive down.
.br
   4: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day day_minute second soundspeed
      where year, julian_day, and day_minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and soundspeed values are in meters positive down.
.TP
.B --soundspeed-async=\fIRECORDTYPE\fP
Specifies the type of data records from which sound speed values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-soundspeed-file-format\fP). Options for the
\fIrecord_kind\fP include:
.br
    MB_DATA_DATA:       1 (survey data)
    MB_DATA_SSV:       19 (sound speed data)
    MB_DATA_CTD:       34 (sound speed data)
#.br
What types of data records are present is format-dependent, as is the default
choice of which record type is used as the sound speed source. The
program \fBmbinfo\fP can be used with the \fB-N\fP option to determine the numbers
of different record types present in a data file.
.TP
.B --soundspeed-sensor=\fISENSORID\fP
If a platform file has been specified, this option defines the id of the sensor
description associated with the navigation data being used, whether that
derives from asynchronous records in the data stream or from an external
navigation file.
.br
.TP
.B --time-latency-file=\fIFILE\fP
Specifies an external time series file from which to read a time latency model to be applied
to some or all of the timestamps in the data stream.
.TP
.B --time-latency-file-format=\fIFORMATID\fP
Specifies the format of an external time latency time series file from which time latency values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-time-latency-file\fP). Options for the \fIformat_id\fP
value are:
.br
   1: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        time_d timeshift
      where time_d is time in decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), and
      timeshift values are in seconds.
.br
   2: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year month day hour minute second timeshift
      where year, month, day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and timeshift values are in seconds.
.br
   3: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day hour minute second timeshift
      where year, julian_day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and timeshift values are in seconds.
.br
   4: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day day_minute second timeshift
      where year, julian_day, and day_minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and timeshift values are in seconds.
.TP
.B --time-latency-constant=\fISECONDS\fP
Specifies a constant time latency value
.TP
.B --time-latency-apply-nav
Specifies that the time latency correction will be applied to the time stamps
associated with the navigation data merged with the survey data.
.TP
.B --time-latency-apply-sensordepth
Specifies that the time latency correction will be applied to the time stamps
associated with the sonar depth data merged with the survey data.
.TP
.B --time-latency-apply-heading
Specifies that the time latency correction will be applied to the time stamps
associated with the heading data merged with the survey data.
.TP
.B --time-latency-apply-attitude
Specifies that the time latency correction will be applied to the time stamps
associated with the attitude data merged with the survey data.
.TP
.B --time-latency-apply-altitude
Specifies that the time latency correction will be applied to the time stamps
associated with the altitude data merged with the survey data.
.TP
.B --time-latency-apply-all-ancilliary
Specifies that the time latency correction will be applied to the time stamps
associated with all of the ancilliary data merged with the survey data (i.e. the
navigation, sensor depth, heading, attitude, and altitude data).
.TP
.B --time-latency-apply-survey
Specifies that the time latency correction will be applied to the time stamps
associated with the survey data.
.TP
.B --time-latency-apply-all
Specifies that the time latency correction will be applied to all time stamps
associated with survey data and ancilliary data.
.br
.TP
.B --filter=\fISECONDS\fP
Specifies the half width in seconds of a Gaussian smoothing filter that can be applied to
ancilliary time series data prior to merging with the survey data. This includes
the navigation, heading, sensor depth, attitude and altitude data.
.TP
.B --filter-apply-nav
Specifies that the smoothing filtering will be applied to the navigation data
merged with the survey data.
.TP
.B --filter-apply-sensordepth
Specifies that the smoothing filtering will be applied to the sensor depth data
merged with the survey data.
.TP
.B --filter-apply-heading
Specifies that the smoothing filtering will be applied to the heading data
merged with the survey data.
.TP
.B --filter-apply-attitude
Specifies that the smoothing filtering will be applied to the attitude data
merged with the survey data.
.TP
.B --filter-apply-altitude
Specifies that the smoothing filtering will be applied to the altitude data
merged with the survey data.
.TP
.B --filter-apply-all-ancilliary
Specifies that the smoothing filtering will be will be applied to all of the a
ncilliary data merged with the survey data (i.e. the
navigation, sensor depth, heading, attitude, and altitude data).
.br
.TP
.B --recalculate-bathymetry
This option causes the bathymetry in the survey data to be recalculated during
preprocessing. The specifics of the recalculation are format dependent.
.TP
.B --no-change-survey
This option forces \fBmbpreprocess\fP to not modify the survey data.
.TP
.B --multibeam-sidescan-source=\fISOURCE\fP
This option defines the source type for the backscatter used in calculating
the sidescan imagery associated with multibeam data for multibeam data formats
that have multiple types of backscatter records and may have more that one type
available in a data stream. The relevant formats are Reson 7k (88), Teledyne 7k3 (89),
and Kongsberg kmall (161). If \fISOURCE\fP = S or s, then uncalibrated snippet
records will be used. If \fISOURCE\fP = C or c, then the source records will be
calibrated snippets. If \fISOURCE\fP = B or b, then the source will be wide
beam backscatter that is provided in a sidescan-like port and starboard time
series. Finally, if \fISOURCE\fP = W or w, then the source records will be
calibrated wide beam backscatter. By default, for the relevant formats
\fBmbpreprocess\fP will attempt to use the best available source, with a
preference order of calibrated snippets, then snippets, then calibrated wide
beam, then wide beam.
.TP
.B --sounding-amplitude-filter=\fITHRESHOLD\fP
This option enables flagging soundings that have amplitude or intensity values
less than the specified threshold value for some data formats. The two relevant
formats are Reson 7k (88) and 3D at Depth lidar (232 and 233).
.TP
.B --sounding-altitude-filter=\fITHRESHOLD\fP
This option enables flagging soundings that have altitude values
less than the specified threshold value for some data formats. The relevant
formats are 3D at Depth lidar (232 and 233).
.TP
.B --head1-offsets\fP=\fIX/Y/Z/HEADING/ROLL/PITCH\fP
This option specifies the positional and angular offsets of optical head 1 relative
to the origin for a dual head lidar system. The only relevant formats are for
3D at Depth lidars (232 and 233).
.TP
.B --head2-offsets\fP=\fIX/Y/Z/HEADING/ROLL/PITCH\fP
This option specifies the positional and angular offsets of optical head 2 relative
to the origin for a dual head lidar system. The only relevant formats are for
3D at Depth lidars (232 and 233).
.TP
.B --kluge-time-jumps=\fISECONDS\fP
.TP
.B --kluge-ancilliary-time-jumps=\fISECONDS\fP
.TP
.B --kluge-mbaripressure-time-jumps=\fISECONDS\fP
.TP
.B --kluge-beam-tweak=\fIFACTOR\fP
.TP
.B --kluge-soundspeed-tweak=\fIFACTOR\fP
.TP
.B --kluge-zero-attitude-correction
.TP
.B --kluge-zero-alongtrack-angles
.TP
.B --kluge-fix-wissl-timestamps
.TP
.B --kluge-ignore-snippets
This option was created to handle some Kongsberg EM122 data in *.all files (supported
as format 58) in which most, but not all, of the snippet backscatter records are missing.
The i/o module for this format views pings without snippet records as incomplete.
When \fB--kluge-ignore-snippets\fP is specified, \fBmbpreprocess\fP creates an empty
snippet record for each ping, and ignores any snippet records actually in the
input datastream.

.SH EXAMPLES
To be written.....

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbdatalist\fP(1), \fBmbprocess\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Oh yeah.
