.TH mbsslayout 1 "17 September 2017" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbsslayout\fP \- translate time-based sidescan sonar data into backscatter
laid out into a regular array of pixels on the seafloor by projecting onto a
topographic model.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbsslayout\fP [ 
.br
\fB\-\-verbose\fP
.br
\fB\-\-help\fP
.br
\fB\-\-input\fP=\fIdatalist\fP
.br
\fB\-\-format\fP=\fIformat\fP
.br
\fB\-\-platform-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP
.br
\fB\-\-platform-target-sensor\fP=\fISENSORID\fP
.br
.br
\fB\-\-output-source\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
\fB\-\-line-nameroot\fP=\fIname\fP
.br
\fB\-\-line-time-list\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
\fB\-\-line-route\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
\fB\-\-line-check-bearing\fP
.br
\fB\-\-line-name1\fP=\fIname\fP
.br
\fB\-\-line-name2\fP=\fIname\fP
.br
\fB\-\-line-range-threshold\fP=\fIvalue\fP
.br
\fB\-\-topo-grid-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
\fB\-\-altitude-altitude\fP
.br
\fB\-\-altitude-bottomppick\fP
.br
\fB\-\-altitude-bottompick-threshold\fP=\fIvalue\fP
.br
\fB\-\-altitude-topo-grid\fP
.br
\fB\-\-channel-swap\fP
.br
\fB\-\-swath-width\fP=\fIvalue\fP
.br
\fB\-\-interpolation\fP=\fIvalue\fP
.br
.br
\fB\-\-nav-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
\fB\-\-nav-file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
\fB\-\-nav-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
\fB\-\-sensordepth-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
\fB\-\-sensordepth-file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
\fB\-\-sensordepth-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
\fB\-\-altitude-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
\fB\-\-altitude_file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
\fB\-\-altitude-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
\fB\-\-heading-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
\fB\-\-heading-file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
\fB\-\-heading-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
\fB\-\-attitude-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
\fB\-\-attitude-file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
\fB\-\-attitude-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
\fB\-\-soundspeed-constant\fP=\fIvalue\fP
.br
\fB\-\-soundspeed-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
\fB\-\-soundspeed-file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
\fB\-\-soundspeed-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
\fB\-\-timeshift-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
\fB\-\-timeshift-constant\fP=\fIvalue\fP
.br
\fB\-\-timeshift-apply-nav\fP
.br
\fB\-\-timeshift-apply-sensordepth\fP
.br
\fB\-\-timeshift-apply-altitude\fP
.br
\fB\-\-timeshift-apply-heading\fP
.br
\fB\-\-timeshift-apply-attitude\fP
.br
\fB\-\-timeshift-apply-all-ancilliary\fP
.br
\fB\-\-timeshift-apply-survey\fP
.br
\fB\-\-timeshift-apply-all\fP
.br
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
MBsslayout translates time-based sidescan sonar data into backscatter
laid out onto a topographic model of the seafloor. The input should be a datalist
referencing data files in a format containing time based sidescan sonar data
(typically both port and starboard time series). Often the logged file will not
include any form of swath bathymetry data.
The output will be sidescan data for which each ping return is represented by a single array
of pixels with acrosstrack and alongtrack locations, where in the acrosstrack
direction the pixels are uniformly sized (and therefore uniformly spaced).
The output will be written to files in the MBF_MBLDEOIH format (MBIO format id 71). 

The time series sidescan is
"laid out" onto the seafloor using the two-travel time of each sample, it's
orientation (port or starboard), the speed of sound, the location and orientation
of the sonar, and some knowledge or assumption about the seafloor topography.
The "laying out" process involves defining a regularly spaced array of acrosstrack
pixels for which the pixel size (in meters) and the number of pixels determines
the width of the array; this array is centered under the sonar location in an
assumption that the swath center is approximately beneath the sonar. The location
of each original sidescan sample on the seafloor, and the corresponding pixel in
the destination sidescan array, is calculated according to the parameters listed
above. The sidescan samples are binned in the destination array, with averaging
applied for destination pixels holding more than one sample. After the averaging is
calculated, empty pixels surrounded by valid data can be filled by interpolation.

The maximum number of pixels in the output swath sidescan is 4001. By default,
\fBmbsslayout\fP varies the pixel size between pings in order to accomodate the
full sidescan swath width within 4001 pixels. The calculation of the swath width W is:
   W = 2.2 * sqrt(R * R - A * A)
.br
where A is the sonar altitude and R is the maximum range:
   R = 0.5 * V * dt * N
.br
Here dt is the sample interval in the time series sidescan, N is the maximum
number of samples in a time series sidescan channel, and V is the speed of sound.
Alternatively, the swath width can be specified to be a constant distance.
Given the swath width W, whether it varies or is constant, \fBmbsslayout\fP
uses an acrosstrack pixel size of:
   dx = W / 4000

The sidescan can be laid out using a flat bottom assumption,
but is generally laid out onto a gridded topographic model derived from bathymetric
mapping with other sensors. The gridded bathymetry data may be collected
simultaneously with the sidescan from the same platform, or it may derive from
other surveys. If no topographic model is specified, then the location of each
sample is calculated assuming a flat bottom according to an altitude value. By
default this altitude derives from the navigation available in the time series
sidescan files, but it can also derive from picking the first bottom arrival in
the time series sidescan data. In this case the altitude used is the average of
the bottom picks from the port and starboard time series sidescan channels.

Navigation, attitude, altitude, and water sound speed values will by default, if available,
derive from values contained in the time-based sidescan files. If necessary or
desired, the ancilliary values can be merged from separate files. Time latency
corrections can be made to the ancilliary data time series if needed.

Once the sidescan data have been laid out onto the seafloor and output to format
71 swath files, they can be further
processed using \fBMB-System\fP tools such as \fBmbbackangle\fP followed by
\fBmbprocess\fP.

.SH MB-SYSTEM AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes
.br
  Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping
.br
  University of New Hampshire
.br
Christian do Santos Ferreira
.br
  MARUM - Center for Marine Environmental Sciences
.br
  University of Bremen

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
.br
By default \fBmbsslayout\fP outputs minimal information to the shell. This option
causes the program to output the control parameters at the start and various
status messages as it runs.
.TP
.B \-\-help\fP
.br
The \fB\-\-help\fP option causes \fBmbsslayout\fP to print out a summary of its
purpose and a listing of its control options, and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-\-input\fP=\fIdatalist\fP
.br
This option defines the input files containing the time series sidescan data.
The \fIdatalist\fP value typically denotes a  datalist  file
containing  a list of input swath data files and/or other datalist files. 
Alternatively, a single swath data file can also be specified.
.TP
.B \-\-format\fP=\fIformat\fP
.br
This option sets the \fBMBIO\fP format identifier for the input file specified with
the \fB\-\-input\fP option. By default, \fBmbsslayout\fP infers the format id from
from the input filename via use of the \fBMB-System\fP suffix convention
("*.mbXXX") or of other recognized file suffixes.
.TP
.B \-\-platform-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP
.br
This option specifies an \fBMB-System\fP platform file to be read and used to
define the positional and angular offsets between sensors on the source survey
platform. Often the embedded navigation and attitude (and other ancilliary) data
are already referenced to the relevant sidescan sonar; in this case no platform
model is required during sidescan layout. However, if the available navigation
and attitude data are referenced to another sensor or location on the survey
platform, a platform model allows calculation of the actual location and orientation
of the sidescan sonar during the layout process.
.TP
.B \-\-platform-target-sensor\fP=\fISENSORID\fP
.br
This option specifies which sensor in the platform model specified with the
\fB\-\-platform\-file\fP option is the source of the time series sidescan data
being processed by \fBmbsslayout\fP.
.br
.TP
.B \-\-output-source\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
This option specifies the \fBMB-System\fP data record type in the input source
data that contains the time series sidescan data being processed by \fBmbsslayout\fP.
The source data record type will not always be considered survey data (MB_DATA_DATA, ID=1)
and may instead by secondary sidescan (MB_DATA_SIDESCAN2, ID=38) or tertiary sidescan
(MB_DATA_SIDESCAN2, ID=39). For instance, Edgetech sidescan data are recorded in the
Jstar format in files with a *.jsf suffix, and these files typically contain two
frequencies of sidescan data. The records containing the lower frequency time series
sidescan data will be reported as MB_DATA_DATA, and those containing the higher frequency
time series sidescan data will be reported as MB_DATA_SIDESCAN2.
The \fBMB-System\fP program \fBmbinfo\fP will, with the
\fB-N\fP option, output a complete list of the data record types in a swath file,
revealing the number of MB_DATA_DATA, MB_DATA_SIDESCAN2, and MB_DATA_SIDESCAN3 records
present.
.TP
.B \-\-line-time-list\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
Specifies an ASCII text file containing a list of times used to define the start and ends of
survey lines, allowing \fBmbsslayout\fP to structure the output files according
to those survey lines. The output filenames will be constructed using the sequential
line numbers (starting from 000) The times are defined in decimal epoch seconds (seconds since
1970) with one time value on each line. Such a time list file can be constructed
from an \fBMB-System\fP route file using the program \fBmbroutetime\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-line-route\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
Specifies an \fBMB-System\fP route file (typically generated using \fBmbgrdviz\fP)
that defines the waypoints of a planned survey. The waypoints of this route are
used in conjunction with the survey navigation to define the start and ends of
survey lines, allowing \fBmbsslayout\fP to structure the output files according
to those survey lines. Since the navigation of real surveys rarely passes through the
planned waypoints exactly, the times at which waypoints are reached is calculated
using a range threshold specified using the \fB\-\-line-range-threshold\fP option.
..TP
.B \-\-line-range-threshold\fP=\fIvalue\fP
.br
Specifies the range theshold used to define when survey navigation reaches a
survey line waypoint. The range (distance) of the survey navigation to the waypoint
should decrease as the waypoint is approached. The waypoint is considered to be
reached when the range stops decreasing and starts to increase, provided the range
is less than the range threshold when that occurs. The default value is 50 meters.
.TP
.B \-\-line-name1\fP=\fIname\fP
.br
If \fBmbsslayout\fP is requested to output sidescan in files corresponding to survey
lines, as defined either by a route file (option \fB\-\-line\-route\fP) or a list
of time stamps (option \fB\-\-line\-time\-list\fP), then the output files will have
names of the form "N1"_"N2"_XXXX.mb71, where "N1" is specified with \fB\-\-output-name1\fP,
"N2" is specified with \fB\-\-output-name2\fP, and XXXX are the sequential line
numbers (starting with "0000").
.TP
.B \-\-line-name2\fP=\fIname\fP
.br
By default, \fBmbsslayout\fP outputs "laid-out" sidescan in format 71 files
corresponding to the input files containing the time series sidescan data, where
the output filenames consist of the original filename stripped of it's identifying
suffix (e.g. ".jsf") and appended with _"N2".mb71.
Here "N2" is specified with \fB\-\-output-name2\fP.
If \fBmbsslayout\fP is requested to output sidescan in files corresponding to survey
lines, as defined either by a route file (option \fB\-\-line\-route\fP) or a list
of time stamps (option \fB\-\-line\-time\-list\fP), then the output files will have
names of the form "N1"_"N2"_XXXX.mb71, where "N1" is specified with \fB\-\-output-name1\fP,
"N2" is specified with \fB\-\-output-name2\fP, and XXXX are the sequential line
numbers (starting with "0000").
.TP
.B \-\-topo-grid-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
This option specifies a topographic model in the form of a GMT topography grid
file to be used for laying out the sidescan. Each time series sidescan sample
is projected into the topographic model using the sonar navigation and attitude
so that the location of the sample on the seafloor is correct with respect to
the full three dimensional survey geometry. If a topography model is not specified
with this option, then the sidescan will be laid out using a flat bottom assumption
and an altitude value derived either from the survey navigation or by picking the
initial bottom return in the time series sidescan data.
.TP
.B \-\-altitude-bottomppick\fP
.br
Specifies obtaining the altitude value by picking the initial bottom return in
the time series sidescan data. If no topographic model is specified with the
\fB\-\-topo-grid-file\fP option, then the
sidescan will be laid out using using a flat bottom assumption and the altitude.
The default altitude bottompick threshold is 0.5, meaning the bottom return is
picked for each channel (port and starboard) at the first time the time series
sidescan value reaches 0.5 times the maximum value. The altitude value used for
the overall layout is the average of the values found for the port and starboard
channels.
.TP
.B \-\-altitude-bottompick-threshold\fP=\fIvalue\fP
.br
Specifies the threshold used to pick the initial bottom return in the time series
sidescan data. The default threshold is 0.5. This option turns the bottompick
altitude mode on, so it is unnecessary to also specify the \fB\-\-altitude-bottomppick\fP
option.
.TP
.B \-\-channel-swap\fP
.br
This option causes \fBmbsslayout\fP to swap the port and starboard time series
sidescan channels before laying out the sidescan data on the seafloor.
.TP
.B \-\-swath-width\fP=\fIvalue\fP
.br
Specifies a constant output swath width in meters. By default, \fBmbsslayout\fP
varies the swath width according to the maximum range and altitude of the
sidescan data. See the description section for details of the default swath width
calculation and the sidescan layout process.
.br
.TP
.B \-\-interpolation\fP=\fIvalue\fP
.br
Specifies the degree to which gaps in the output swath sidescan are filled by
interpolation. The interpolation value corresponds to the maximum number of
adjacent empty pixels that is filled by interpolation; larger gaps are not
filled by interpolation and remain empty in the output swath sidescan. The default
is to do no interpolation.
.br
.TP
.B \-\-nav-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
Specifies an external file from which to merge sonar position (navigation),
replacing any navigation data included in the input time series sidescan files.
By default \fBmbsslayout\fP attempts to use navigation values included in the
input data.
.TP
.B \-\-nav-file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
Specifies the format of an external navigation file from which position values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-nav-file\fP). Options for the \fIformat_id\fP
value are:
.br
   1: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        time_d longitude latitude speed
      where time_d is time in decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), longitude
      and latitude are in decimal degrees, and speed is in km/hour (and is optional).
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains.
.br
   2: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year month day hour minute second longitude latitude
      where year, month, day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and longitude and latitude are in decimal degrees.
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains.
.br
   3: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day hour minute second longitude latitude
      where year, julian_day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and longitude and latitude are in decimal degrees.
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains.
.br
   4: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year julian_day day_minute second longitude latitude
      where year, julian_day, and day_minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and longitude and latitude are in decimal degrees.
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains.
.br
   5: ASCCI text file in the 1990's era L-DEO processed nav format with lines
      of the form:
        yy+jjjhhmmssNddmmmmmmEdddmmmmmm
      where yy is the two digit year (after 1999 the "yy+" was replaced by a four
      digit year "yyyy"), jjj is the julian_day, hh is the hour, mm
      is minutes, and ss is seconds. The latitude is given as
      Nddmmmmmmand where N is 'N' for north and 'S' for south, dd are integer
      degrees, and mmmmmm is minutes * 10000. The longitude is given as
      Edddmmmmmmand where E is 'E' for east and 'W' for west, ddd are integer
      degrees, and mmmmmm is minutes * 10000.
.br
   6 or 7: NMEA 0183 position strings
      Several NMEA and NMEA-like strings containing position are recognized,
      and can be parsed with and without line break characters. These strings
      include ZDA, GLL, GGA, DAT, and UNX.
.br
   8: Simrad 90 format navigation files with lines
      of the form:
        ddmmyy hhmmssss ddmmmmmmmN dddmmmmmmmE
      where dd is day of the month, mm is the month, yy is the two digit year,
      hh is the hour, mm is the minute, and ssss is seconds * 100.
      The latitude is given as ddmmmmmmmN where dd are integer degrees, 
      mmmmmmm is minutes * 100000, and N is 'N' for north and 'S' for south latitude.
      The longitude is given as dddmmmmmmmE where ddd are integer degrees, 
      mmmmmmm is minutes * 100000, and E is 'E' for east and 'W' for west longitude.
      
      
      day_minute values are integers,
      the second value is decimal, and longitude and latitude are in decimal
      degrees. The longitude is given as
      Edddmmmmmmand where E is 'E' for east and 'W' for west, ddd are integer
      degrees, and mmmmm is minutes * 10000.
.br
   9: ASCCI text file with white-space delimited lines of the form:
        yr mon day hour min sec time_d lon lat heading speed sensordepth*
      where yr is the four digit year, mon is the month, day is the day of the
      month, min is the minute, second is the decimal seconds, time_d is time in
      decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), lon is the longitude
      in decimal degrees, lat is the latitude in decimal degrees, heading is in
      decimal degrees, speed is in km/hour, and sensordepth is in meters.
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains.
.br
   10: R2R (Rolling deck to Repository) navigation format with ASCCI text lines
      of the form:
         yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss.sssZ lon lat quality nsat dilution height
      where the lon and lat fields are in decimal degrees with south latitudes
      and west longitudes negative, and the last four quantities relating to
      GPS fix quality.
.TP
.B \-\-nav-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
Specifies the type of data records from which position values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-nav-file-format\fP). Options for the
\fIrecord_kind\fP include:
.br
    MB_DATA_DATA:  1 (survey data)
    MB_DATA_NAV:  12 (navigation data)
    MB_DATA_NAV1: 29 (navigation data from navigation system 1)
    MB_DATA_NAV2: 30 (navigation data from navigation system 2)
    MB_DATA_NAV3: 31 (navigation data from navigation system 3)
.br
What types of data records are present is format-dependent, as is the default
choice of which record type is used as the navigation source by default. The
program \fBmbinfo\fP can be used with the \fB-N\fP option to determine the numbers
of different record types present in a data file.
.TP
.B \-\-sensordepth-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
Specifies an external file from which to merge sensor depth,
replacing any sensor depth data included in the input time series sidescan files.
By default \fBmbsslayout\fP attempts to use sensor depth values included in the
input data.
.TP
.B \-\-sensordepth-file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
Specifies the format of an external sensor depth file from which sensor depth values
are derived (as defined with \fB\-\-sensordepth-file\fP). Options for the \fIformat_id\fP
value are:
.br
   1: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        time_d longitude latitude speed
      where time_d is time in decimal epoch seconds (seconds since 1970), longitude
      and latitude are in decimal degrees, and speed is in km/hour (and is optional).
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains.
.br
   2: ASCCI text file with lines of the form:
        year month day hour minute second longitude latitude
      where year, month, day, hour, and minute values are integers, the second
      value is decimal, and longitude and latitude are in decimal degrees.
      South latitudes are negative. Longitude may be defined on either the
      -180.0 to +180.0 or 0.0 to 360.0 domains.
.br
.TP
.B \-\-sensordepth-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-altitude-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
Specifies an external file from which to merge altitude,
replacing any altitude data included in the input time series sidescan files.
By default \fBmbsslayout\fP attempts to use altitude values included in the
input data.
.TP
.B \-\-altitude_file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-altitude-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-heading-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
Specifies an external file from which to merge heading,
replacing any heading data included in the input time series sidescan files.
By default \fBmbsslayout\fP attempts to use heading values included in the
input data.
.TP
.B \-\-heading-file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-heading-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-attitude-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
Specifies an external file from which to merge attitude (roll and pitch),
replacing any attitude data included in the input time series sidescan files.
By default \fBmbsslayout\fP attempts to use attitude values included in the
input data.
.TP
.B \-\-attitude-file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-attitude-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-soundspeed-constant\fP=\fIvalue\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-soundspeed-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
Specifies an external file from which to merge water sound speed,
replacing any sound speed data included in the input time series sidescan files.
By default \fBmbsslayout\fP attempts to use sound speed values included in the
input data.
.TP
.B \-\-soundspeed-file-format\fP=\fIformat_id\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-soundspeed-async\fP=\fIrecord_kind\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-timeshift-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-timeshift-constant\fP=\fIvalue\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-timeshift-apply-nav\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-timeshift-apply-sensordepth\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-timeshift-apply-altitude\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-timeshift-apply-heading\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-timeshift-apply-attitude\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-timeshift-apply-all-ancilliary\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-timeshift-apply-survey\fP
.br
.TP
.B \-\-timeshift-apply-all\fP
.br




.SH EXAMPLES
To be written.....

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbdatalist\fP(1), \fBmbprocess\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Oh yeah.
