.TH mbusbl2fnv 1 "2026" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbusbl2fnv\fP \- converts a USBL (ultra-short baseline) ROV tracking CSV
file to an MB-System fast navigation (fnv) text file.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbusbl2fnv\fP [\fB\-I\fP\fIusbl.csv\fP] [\fB\-O\fP\fIoutput.fnv\fP] [\fB\-V\fP] [\fB\-H\fP]
.br
\fBmbusbl2fnv\fP [\fB\-\-input\fP=\fIusbl.csv\fP] [\fB\-\-output\fP=\fIoutput.fnv\fP]
[\fB\-\-verbose\fP] [\fB\-\-help\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbusbl2fnv\fP converts a USBL (ultra-short baseline) ROV tracking CSV
file to an MB-System fast navigation (fnv) ASCII text file.

The input CSV file is expected to have one header line followed by
data lines, each containing four comma-separated fields:

.nf
  field 0: epoch time (Unix epoch seconds)
  field 1: latitude (decimal degrees, positive north)
  field 2: longitude (decimal degrees, positive east)
  field 3: ROV depth (meters, positive down) \- used as draft
.fi

Heading, speed, roll, pitch, and heave are not present in the USBL
tracking data and are output as 0.0 in the fnv file.

Lines are treated as data only if their first non-whitespace character
could begin a number (a digit, \fB+\fP, \fB\-\fP, or \fB.\fP); this allows
the header line and any comment lines beginning with \fB#\fP to be
skipped automatically. Lines that do not parse into exactly four
numeric fields are skipped with a warning in verbose mode. Records
with retrograde (non-increasing) timestamps are also skipped.

The fnv format is a tab-separated ASCII text file. The first line is a
comment beginning with \fB##\fP that names the columns. Each subsequent
data line contains the following tab-separated fields:

.nf
  yyyy mm dd hh mm ss.ssssss
  epoch_seconds
  longitude (deg)
  latitude (deg)
  heading (deg)
  speed (km/hr)
  draft (m)
  roll (deg)
  pitch (deg)
  heave (m)
.fi

The date and time in the first field are space-delimited within their
tab field.

If no input file is specified, \fBmbusbl2fnv\fP reads from standard
input. If no output file is specified, it writes to standard output.

.SH MB-SYSTEM AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-H
.TP
.B \-\-help
Prints the program name, usage, and a description of the expected
USBL CSV field layout, then exits.
.TP
.B \-V
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Increases the verbosity of \fBmbusbl2fnv\fP. With this option the
program prints the input and output file names to standard error when
they are opened, reports any malformed or retrograde-timestamp lines
that are skipped, and prints a final summary of the number of records
read, written, and skipped.
.TP
.B \-I \fIusbl.csv\fP
.TP
.B \-\-input=\fIusbl.csv\fP
Sets the path of the input USBL tracking CSV file. If this option is
not given, the program reads from standard input.
.TP
.B \-O \fIoutput.fnv\fP
.TP
.B \-\-output=\fIoutput.fnv\fP
Sets the path of the output fnv file. If this option is not given,
the program writes to standard output.

.SH EXAMPLES
Convert a USBL tracking CSV file to an fnv file:
.PP
.nf
    mbusbl2fnv \-I usbl_track.csv \-O rov.fnv
.fi
.PP
Use standard input and output (e.g. within a pipeline):
.PP
.nf
    cat usbl_track.csv | mbusbl2fnv > rov.fnv
.fi
.PP
Convert with verbose progress reporting:
.PP
.nf
    mbusbl2fnv \-\-verbose \-\-input=usbl_track.csv \-\-output=rov.fnv
.fi
.PP
Use the fnv output to supply ROV navigation to \fBmbpreprocess\fP:
.PP
.nf
    mbusbl2fnv \-I usbl_track.csv \-O rov.fnv
    mbpreprocess \-\-format=<format> \-\-input=datalist.mb\-1 \\
        \-\-nav\-file=rov.fnv \-\-nav\-file\-format=9 \\
        \-\-sensordepth\-file=rov.fnv \-\-sensordepth\-file\-format=9
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbnavlab2fnv\fP(1), \fBmbfnv2navlab\fP(1), \fBmbpreprocess\fP(1), \fBmbprocess\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
Heading, speed, roll, pitch, and heave are not available in USBL
tracking data and are always written as 0.0 in the fnv output.
Applications that require these values should obtain them from another
navigation or attitude source.

The optional port and starboard swath edge columns present in some fnv
files are not written by \fBmbusbl2fnv\fP, as no swath geometry is
available from USBL tracking data.
