.TH mbm_arc2grd l "15 October 2002" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbm_arc2grd\fP - Macro to convert an ArcView ASCII grid 
to a GMT  grid file in the GMT NetCDF grid format. 

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
mbm_arc2grd \fB-I\fP\fIarcfile\fP \fB-O\fP\fIgrdfile\fP [\fB-H -V\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbm_arc2grd\fP is a macro to convert a ArcView 
ASCII grid to an GMT grid file in the 
GMT NetCDF grid format. This allows users to import the grid
into GMT. The grid will have the same grid interval in both 
longitude and latitude.
The macro first obtains the bounds, dimensions, and grid
cell size of the grid by parsing the six line header.
The macro then reformats the gridded data as xyz data,
writing it to a temporary file. This temporary file is 
processed using the GMT program \fBxyz2grd\fP,
yielding a GMT GRD format grid file.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIarcfile\fP
.br
Sets the filename of the input ArcView ASCII grid.
.TP
.B \-O
\fIgrdname\fP
.br
Sets the filename of the output GMT grid file. This file will be
in the GMT NetCDF GRD format. 
.TP
.B \-V
The \fB-V\fP option causes \fBmbm_arc2grd\fP to print out status messages.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose that we have obtained an ascii ArcView grid called
kohalab.asc. To translate this file to a GMT grd file,
the following will suffice:
.br
  	mbm_arc2grd -I kohalab.asc -O kohalab.grd -V
.br
Running the example above produced the following output:
 	Program mbm_arc2grd status:
 		Input ArcView ASCII  file: kohalab.asc
 		Output GRD file:           kohalab.grd
 		Grid dimensions:  1597  1431
 		Grid cell sizes:  0.0001914456033  0.0001914456033
  		Grid bounds:      -155.72855  -155.423002817133    20.1318  20.405567212719

 	Running xyz2grd...
 	xyz2grd: nx = 1597  ny = 1431

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(l), \fBmbm_grd2arc\fP(l),
\fBmbm_grid\fP(l)

.SH BUGS
Perhaps.


