.TH mbm_grdinfo 1 "26 October 2009" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbm_grdinfo\fP - Macro to get information regarding a GMT grd file when the
region of interest is a subset of the area covered in the
input file.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
mbm_grdinfo \fB-I\fP\fIinfile\fP [\fB-R\fP\fIw/e/s/n\fP \fB-H\fP \fB-V\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmbm_grdinfo\fP is a macro to get information 
regarding a GMT grd file when the
region of interest is a subset of the area covered in the
input file. If no bounds are specified, the program grdinfo 
is called directly.  If longitude and latitude bounds are 
specified, then the specified region is cut from the input 
file using the macro mbm_grdinfo, and the information is 
obtained from the subset temporary grd file using grdinfo.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIinfile\fP
.br
Sets the filename of the input GMT grid file. This file must be
in the GMT NetCDF GRD format. 
.TP
.B \-R
\fIw/e/s/n\fP
.br
Sets the bounds of the area of interest in the grid file. The
information reported will pertain to this area only. 
.TP
.B \-V
The \fB-V\fP option causes \fBmbm_grdinfo\fP to print out status messages.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose that we have used \fBmbgrid\fP to obtain a
topography grid file called KohalaA_bath.grd in the GMT NetCDF
GRD format:
 	mbgrid -Idatalist \\
 		-OKohalaA_bath \\
 		-R-155.72855/-155.31928/20.09488/20.47645 \\
 		-E30.0/0m! -A2 -N -G3 -C1 -V
.br
Further suppose that one wishes to determine the
depth range in a smaller area with
bounds of 155 degrees 31 minutes W to 155 degrees 26 minutes W
in longitude and 20 degrees 13 minutes N to 20 degrees 18 minutes N
in latitude. The following will suffice:
 	mbm_grdinfo -I KohalaA_bath.grd \
 		-R-155:31/-155:26/20:13/20:18 \
		-V
 
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(l), \fBmbm_grdplot\fP(l), \fBmbm_grdinfo\fP(l)

.SH BUGS
This macro is new and hasn't been tested in serious
usage yet - let us know what to fix, add, or
change!.


