.TH mb7k2ss 1 "3 June 2013" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmb7k2ss\fP \- extracts sidescan sonar
data from Reson 7k format data, bins and lays the sidescan
onto the seafloor, and outputs files in the MBF_MBLDEOIH
formst (MBIO format id 71).

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmb7k2ss\fP [\fB\-A\fItype\fP
\fB\-B\fP\fIbottompickmode/bottompickthreshold\fP \fB\-C\fP \fB\-D\fP\fIinterpbins\fP
\fB\-F\fP\fIformat\fP \fB\-I\fP\fIfile\fP \fB\-L\fP\fIstartline/lineroot\fP
\fB\-M \-O\fP\fIoutfile\fP \fB\-Q\fP\fIroutetimefile\fP \fB\-R\fP\fIroutefile\fP
\fB\-T\fP\fItopogridfile\fP \fB\-U\fP\fIrangethreshold\fP \fB\-X \-H \-V\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmb7k2ss\fP is a utility that extracts Edgetech sidescan data from
Reson 7k format (MBIO format 88) data and outputs in the MBF_MBLDEOIH
format (MBIO format 71). Edgetech sonar systems may include dual
frequency sidescans and a subbottom profiler. Users may use the \fB\-A\fP
option to specify whether low frequency or high frequency sidescan data
are extracted. By default, low frequency sidescan is extracted.
\fBMB7k2ss\fP can operate on a single input file or on a datalist
referencing many input files.

The raw sidescan consists of port and starboard channels, each with
thousands of samples ordered uniformly in time from the sonar ping.
\fBMB7k2ss\fP outputs a lower resolution single sidescan swath laid
out onto the seafloor and ordered in pixels with uniform spacing in
acrosstrack distance. Typically the output swath will have 4001
sidescan pixels, each representing an average of several raw samples.
To achieve this result, the program calculates the location
of each raw sample, and bins the samples into the output swath.
By default, the program uses the sonar altitude and a flat bottom
assumption to calculate the sample positions. If a topography grid
covering the survey area is input using the \fB\-T\fP option, then
the sample positions will be calculated using that topography and
the resulting sidescan will be properly located on the seafloor
(that is, if the topography is accurate...).

The method used to determine the sonar altitude is controlled using the
\fB\-B\fP option. By default, the program will use the altitude value
recorded in the vehicle navigation records. Users may also specify use
of nadir bathymetry from co-recorded multibeam bathymetry, or the
altitude can be picked from the first arrival observed in the sidescan
data itself.

The extracted sidescan data file(s) can be organized three ways.By
default there will be a separate output file for every input file.
If the \fB\-O\fP option is used to specify a single output file, then
all of the specified sidescan data will be output to that file. If
the \fB\-Q\fP or \fB\-R\fP option is used to specify a survey route file
that includes the waypoints covered while collecting the data file(s)
referenced by \fB\-I\fP\fIfile\fP, then the output sidescan data will
be broken up by the sequential lines defined by the waypoints. The
\fB\-R\fP option requires a route file of the form exported by \fBMBgrdviz\fP.
The \fB\-Q\fP option requires a route file that includes the time
at which each waypoint is reached in the data; this can be generated
from a regular route file using \fBmbroutetime\fP. In either of these
cases each output file will be named using the  line root name
specified by \fB\-L\fP\fIstartline/lineroot\fP with a sequential line
number starting from \fIstartline\fP. All output files will have a
".mb71" suffix.

The program \fBmbextractsegy\fP is available to extract subbottom profiler
data from Reson 7k data.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-A
\fImode\fP
.br
This option sets the types of data to be extracted and output.
If \fB\-A\fP\fI1\fP is given, then any low frequency sidescan
in the input will be extracted to the output. If \fB\-A\fP\fI2\fP
is given, then any high frequency sidescan records are extracted.
Default: Low frequency sidescan records are extracted.
.TP
.B \-B
\fIbottompickmode/bottompickthreshold\fP
.br
This option sets the source of the sonar first arrival time used for
laying out sidescan on the seafloor. If \fIbottompickmode\fP = 1,
then \fBmb7k2ss\fP will use the altitude value associated with
platform navigation. If \fIbottompickmode\fP = 2, then \fBmb7k2ss\fP
will extract the first arrival time from multibeam bathymetry in the
7k data stream. If \fIbottompickmode\fP = 3, then \fBmb7k2ss\fP
will pick the first arrival time in the sidescan sonar data by looking
for the first sample with an amplitude > \fIbottompickthreshold\fP times the
maximum amplitude in the trace. The altitude used will be the average of
the first arrival times calculated for the port and starboard channels.
Default: fIbottompickmode\fP = 1.
.TP
.B \-C
.br
This option causes  \fBmb7k2ss\fP to print out any comment records
encountered in the input Reson 7k data.
.TP
.B \-D
\fIinterpbins\fP
.br
Causes interpolation over gaps in the output sidescan resulting from draping
the sidescan on topography. The \fIinterpbins\fP values sets the maximum
gap size over which interpolation will be applied.
.TP
.B \-F
\fIformat\fP
.br
Sets the data format used if the input is read from stdin
or from a file. If \fIformat\fP < 0, then the input file specified
with the \fB\-I\fP option will actually contain a list of input swath sonar
data files. This program only reads Reson 7k format data files (\fBMBIO\fP
format 88).
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIinfile\fP
.br
Sets the input file path. If \fIformat\fP > 0 (set with the
\fB\-f\fP option or \fBmbdefaults\fP) then the swath sonar data contained in \fIinfile\fP
is read and processed. If \fIformat\fP < 0, then \fIinfile\fP
is assumed to be an ascii file containing a list of the input swath sonar
data files to be processed and their formats.  The program will read
the data in each one of these files.
In the \fIinfile\fP file, each
data file should be followed by a data format identifier, e.g.:
 	datafile1 88
 	datafile2 88
.br
This program only reads Reson 7k format data files (\fBMBIO\fP
format 88).
.TP
.B \-L
\fIstartline/lineroot\fP
.br
This option sets the starting line number and the output filename root
used when \fB\-R\fP is specified so that data are output according
to planned survey lines. Default: \fIstartline\fP = 1; \fIlineroot\fP = "jstar".
.TP
.B \-M
.br
This option causes \fBmb7k2ss\fP to omit data during turns when
extracting into line files according to a specified set of waypoints
(\fB\-R\fP option). The traces will not be output until the heading is
within 15 degrees of the next survey line's bearing.
.TP
.B \-O
.br
This option sets the output MBF_LDEOIH (\fBMBIO\fP format 71) format file path.
If \fB\-O\fP is not invoked, the output filename (or filenames if a datalist
is being processed) will be the input swath filename with the ".s7k" or ".mb88"
suffix replaced by a ".mb71) suffix. The record types to be extracted are set
using the \fB\-A\fP option.
.TP
.B \-Q
\fIroutetimefile\fP
.br
This option specifies a file containing the times that the survey reached
the intended waypoints. This text file consists of lines of the form:
 	count waypoint longitude latitude heading time_d
.br
where count is just an integer counter starting at 0, waypoint is the waypoint
number starting at 0, longitude and latitude are the waypoint position in
decimal degrees, heading is the heading in decimal degrees, and time_d is
the unix or epoch time (time since 00:00:00 January 1, 1970) in decimal
seconds that the survey reached this waypoint. This file can be generated from
an \fBmbgrdviz\fP route file and survey data using the program \fBmbroutetime\fP.
If \fIroutetimefile\fP is specified, \fBmb7k2ss\fP
will output data in files corresponding to the planned survey lines.
The output file names will be based on \fIlineroot\fP and will include
the line number starting with \fIstarline\fP, both of which are specified
using the \fB\-L\fP options.  If none of \fB\-O\fP, \fB\-Q\fP, or \fB\-R\fP are
invoked, the output filename (or files if a datalist is being processed) will
be the input swath filename with an ".mb71" suffix appended.
.TP
.B \-R
\fIroutefile\fP
.br
This option specifies an \fBmbgrdviz\fP route file containing the intended
waypoints of the survey. If \fIroutefile\fP is specified, \fBmb7k2ss\fP
will output sidescan data in files corresponding to the planned survey lines.
The output file names will be based on \fIlineroot\fP and will include
the line number starting with \fIstarline\fP, both of which are specified
using the \fB\-L\fP options.  If none of \fB\-O\fP, \fB\-Q\fP, or \fB\-R\fP are
invoked, the output filename (or files if a datalist is being processed) will
be the input swath filename with an ".mb71" suffix appended.
.TP
.B \-T
\fItopogridfile\fP
.br
This option specifies a GMT grid file containing a topography model of the
survey area. When available, \fBmb7k2ss\fP, uses the topography to calculate
the position of each raw sidescan sample on the seafloor prior to binning
the sample into the swath data. This method is considerable improvement over the
flat bottom assumption used when topography is unavailable. The grid file
must contain topography (positive up) rather than bathymetry (positive down).
.TP
.B \-U
\fIrangethreshold\fP
.br
If the \fB\-R\fP option is specified, \fBmb7k2ss\fP breaks up the
output into files corresponding to survey lines specified in a route file.
This option sets the threshold distance in meters used to determine when
a waypoint along the route has been reached; the program considers the
next waypoint reached when the range to the waypoint becomes smaller
than \fIrangethreshold\fP and then ceases to decrease.
Default: \fIrangethreshold\fP = 50 m.
.TP
.B \-V
This option increases the verbosity of \fBmb7k2ss\fP, causing it
to print out messages regarding its progress to stdout.
.TP
.B \-W
\fIswathwidth\fP
This option sets the output sidescan swath width in meters. By default
\fBmb7k2ss\fP calculates the swath width to use all of the samples available
in the original data.
.TP
.B \-X
This option switches port and starboard sidescan channels.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose that we have collected two Reson 7k datafiles incorporating
multibeam sonar data, sidescan data, and subbottom profiler data, and
that the filenames are:
        20070809_173212.s7k
        20070809_175133.s7k
After running \fBmb7kpreprocess\fP on these files to fix issues and
prepare the data for processing, we will have two additional files named:
        20070809_173212.mb88
        20070809_175133.mb88
After editing the bathymetry in the ".mb88" files with \fBmbedit\fP,
and running \fBmbprocess\fP to apply the edits, we will have two processed
files that are, among other uses, suitable for sidescan extraction:
        20070809_173212p.mb88
        20070809_175133p.mb88
If we have two datalist files, one called datalist.mb-1 referencing the ".mb88"
files with the following contents:
        20070809_173212p.mb88 88
        20070809_175133p.mb88 88
and another called datalistp.mb-1 referencing the first datalist with a
$PROCESSED tag:
        $PROCESSED
        datalist.mb-1 \-1
then we can extract the Edgetech sidescan from the processed files using:
        mb7k2ss \-v \-A1 \-B2 \-I datalistp.mb-1 \\
        	-M \-X \-R MAUV_Axial_1v4.rte \-L1/Axial07SS \\
        	-T AxialCalderaMBARIAllTopo.grd
Here the \fB\-R\fP option specifies an \fBMBgrdviz\fP route file that was
followed in collecting the data. By using this option, the output sidescan
files will be broken into lines defined by the route waypoints, and the
output filenames will be sequentially numbered. The \fB\-T\fP option specifies a
topography grid that is used by \fBmb7k2ss\fP to lay out the sidescan on
the seafloor. The output appears as follows:
        Program mb7k2ss
 	Version $Id$
 	MB-system Version 5.1.1beta5

 	Data records to extract:
 	     Low Sidescan
 	     Sidescan port and starboard exchanged

 	Imported 45 waypoints from route file: MAUV_Axial_1v4.rte
 	Grid read:
 	  Dimensions: 2072 3558
 	  Geographic Coordinate System Name: Geographic WGS84
 	  Geographic Coordinate System ID:   4326
 	  Longitude:  229.926767 230.060367  0.000065
 	  Latitude:   45.866667 46.026700  0.000045
 	  Internal Grid Projection Mode:         0
 	  Internal Grid Projection ID:           epsg4326
 	Data Read:
 	  grid_projection_mode:     0
 	  grid_projection_id:       epsg4326
 	  nodatavalue:              \-10000000.000000
 	  nx:                       2072
 	  ny:                       3558
 	  min:                      \-2302.588135
 	  max:                      \-1382.877319
 	  xmin:                     229.926767
 	  xmax:                     230.060367
 	  ymin:                     45.866667
 	  ymax:                     46.026700
 	  dx:                       0.000065
 	  dy:                       0.000045
 	  data:                     71467008

 	Data records read from: 20070809_173212p.mb88
 	     Survey:        2330
 	     File Header:   2
 	     Bluefin CTD:   1152
 	     Bluefin Nav:   942
 	     Subbottom:     0
 	     Low Sidescan:  2328
 	     High Sidescan: 0

 	Generating inf file for Axial07SS_0001_sslo.mb71
 	Generating fnv file for Axial07SS_0001_sslo.mb71

 	Data records written to: Axial07SS_0001_sslo.mb71
 	     Low Sidescan:  2759
 	     High Sidescan: 0

 	Generating inf file for Axial07SS_0002_sslo.mb71
 	Generating fnv file for Axial07SS_0002_sslo.mb71

 	Data records written to: Axial07SS_0002_sslo.mb71
 	     Low Sidescan:  369
 	     High Sidescan: 0

 	Data records read from: 20070809_175133p.mb88
 	     Survey:        2367
 	     File Header:   2
 	     Bluefin CTD:   1158
 	     Bluefin Nav:   942
 	     Subbottom:     0
 	     Low Sidescan:  2367
 	     High Sidescan: 0

 	Generating inf file for Axial07SS_0003_sslo.mb71
 	Generating fnv file for Axial07SS_0003_sslo.mb71

 	Total data records read:
 	     Survey:        4697
 	     File Header:   4
 	     Bluefin CTD:   2310
 	     Bluefin Nav:   1884
 	     Subbottom:     0
 	     Low Sidescan:  4695
 	     High Sidescan: 0
 	 Total data records written:
 	      Low Sidescan:  4160
 	      High Sidescan: 0

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbformat\fP(1), \fBmbinfo\fP(1), \fBmb7kpreprocess\fP(1),
\fBmb7k2jstar\fP(1), \fBmbextractsegy\fP(1), \fBmbbackangle\fP(1), \fBmbprocess\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
No doubt.
