.TH mbextractsegy 1 "3 June 2013" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbextractsegy\fP - extracts subbottom profiler, center beam reflection,
or seismic reflection data from swath data supported by MB-System and
rewrites it as a SEGY file.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbextractsegy\fP [\fB-B\fP\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP \fB-E\fP\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP
\fB-F\fP\fIformat\fP \fB-I\fP\fIfile\fP \fB-J\fP\fIxscale/yscale/maxwidth\fP
\fB-L\fP\fIstartline/lineroot\fP \fB-M -O\fP\fIsegyfile\fP \fB-Q\fP\fIroutetimefile\fP
\fB-R\fP\fIroutefile\fP \fB-S\fP\fIsampleformat\fP
\fB-T\fP\fItimeshift\fP \fB-U\fP\fIrangethreshold\fP \fB-Z\fP\fIplotmax\fP \fB-V -H\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBMBextractsegy\fP is a utility for reading a swath sonar data file
or files, extracting subbottom profiler, center beam reflection,
or seismic reflection data, and outputting that selected data
as a SEGY file. Parameters such as sonar depth, seafloor depth, and
position are embedded into the SEGY data. The SEGY files are
output in a form used by the seismic reflection processing package
\fBSIOSEIS\fP. A "sinf" file containing statistics about the content
of the SEGY file is created automatically by \fBMBextractsegy\fP; this
file is named by adding a ".sinf" suffix to the SEGY filename.

At present, the only swath data formats from which subbottom data
can be extracted are format 88 (Reson 7k format), format 132
(Edgetech Jstar format), and format 133 (Edgetech Jstar format).

The extracted segy data file(s) can be organized three ways. If the \fB-O\fP
option is used to specify a single segy output file, then all of the
segy data will be output to that single file. If either the \fB-Q\fP or
\fB-R\fP options are used to specify a survey route file that includes
the waypoints covered while collecting the data file(s) referenced by
\fB-I\fP\fIfile\fP, then the output segy data will be broken up by the
sequential lines defined by the waypoints. The \fB-Q\fP option specifies a
route file that includes the time at which each waypoint is reached in the
data, and the \fB-R\fP option specifies a route file of the form exported by
\fBMBgrdviz\fP. In the waypoint-driven case each output segy file will be named
using the line root name specified by \fB-L\fP\fIstartline/lineroot\fP with a
sequential line number starting from \fIstartline\fP. If neither the \fB-O\fP or
\fB-L\fP options are used, each input swath file will have a corresponding
segy output file with the ".segy" suffix added to the original filename.

\fBMBextractsegy\fP also generates a "first cut plot" script that will generate
grayscale section plots in Postscript of each segy file using the programs
\fBMBsegygrid\fP and \fBmbm_grdplot\fP. The \fB-Z\fP sets the trace value
corresponding to the maximum grayscale (black) in the section plots.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-B
\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP
.br
This option sets the starting time for data allowed in the input data.
The \fB-E\fP option sets the ending time for data. If the
starting time is before the ending time, then any data
with a time stamp before the starting time or after the
ending time is ignored. If instead the starting time is
after the ending time, then any data between the ending
and starting time will be ignored. This scheme allows time
windowing both inside and outside a specified interval.
Default: \fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP = 1962/2/21/10/30/0.
.B \-E
\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP
.br
This option sets the ending time for data allowed in the input data.
The \fB-B\fP option sets the starting time for data. If the
starting time is before the ending time, then any data
with a time stamp before the starting time or after the
ending time is ignored. If instead the starting time is
after the ending time, then any data between the ending
and starting time will be ignored. This scheme allows time
windowing both inside and outside a specified interval.
Default: \fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP = 2062/2/21/10/30/0.
.TP
.B \-F
\fIformat\fP
.br
Sets the data format used if the input is read from stdin
or from a file. If \fIformat\fP < 0, then the input file specified
with the \fB-I\fP option will actually contain a list of input swath sonar
data files. This program uses the \fBMBIO\fP library
and will read or write any swath sonar
format supported by \fBMBIO\fP. A list of the swath sonar data formats
currently supported by \fBMBIO\fP and their identifier values
is given in the \fBMBIO\fP manual page. The default format is set
using the program \fBmbdefaults\fP..
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIinfile\fP
.br
Sets the input file path. If \fIformat\fP > 0 (set with the
\fB-f\fP option or \fBmbdefaults\fP) then the swath sonar data contained in \fIinfile\fP
is read and processed. If \fIformat\fP < 0, then \fIinfile\fP
is assumed to be an ascii file containing a list of the input swath sonar
data files to be processed and their formats.  The program will read
the data in each one of these files.
In the \fIinfile\fP file, each
data file should be followed by a data format identifier, e.g.:
 	datafile1 11
 	datafile2 24
.br
This program uses the \fBMBIO\fP library and will read or write any swath sonar
format supported by \fBMBIO\fP. A list of the swath sonar data formats
currently supported by \fBMBIO\fP and their identifier values
is given in the \fBMBIO\fP manual page. Default: \fIinfile\fP = "stdin".
.TP
.B \-J
\fIxscale/yscale/maxwidth\fP
.br
Sets the scale of the default section plots. The \fIxscale\fP value is
in inches per shot, and the \fIyscale\fP value is in inches per second.
The \fImaxwidth\fP value sets the maximum plot width in inches. If
\fIxscale\fP and the shot range imply a width greater than \fImaxwidth\fP,
then the section will be broken up into multiple plots.
Default: \fIxscale\fP = 0.01; \fIyscale\fP = 75; \fImaxwidth\fP = 45.0
.TP
.B \-L
\fIstartline/lineroot\fP
.br
This option sets the starting line number and the output filename root
used when \fB-R\fP is specified so that data are output according
to planned survey lines. Default: \fIstartline\fP = 1; \fIlineroot\fP = "sbp".
.TP
.B \-M
.br
This option causes \fBmbextractsegy\fP to omit data during turns when
extracting into line files according to a specified set of waypoints
(\fB-R\fP option). The traces will not be output until the heading is
within 15 degrees of the next survey line's bearing.
.TP
.B \-O
.br
This option sets the output SEGY file path. If neither \fB-O\fP nore \fB-R\fP are invoked,
the output SEGY filename (or files if a datalist is being processed) will
be the input swath filename with ".segy" appended.
.TP
.B \-Q
\fIroutetimefile\fP
.br
This option specifies route file containing the times that the survey reached
the intended waypoints. This text file consists of lines of the form:
 	count waypoint longitude latitude heading time_d
.br
where count is just an integer counter starting at 0, waypoint is the waypoint
number starting at 0, longitude and latitude are the waypoint position in
decimal degrees, heading is the heading in decimal degrees, and time_d is
the unix or epoch time (time since 00:00:00 January 1, 1970) in decimal
seconds that the survey reached this waypoint. This file can be generated from
an \fBmbgrdviz\fP route file and survey data using the program \fBmbroutetime\fP.
If \fIroutetimefile\fP is specified, \fBmbextractsegy\fP
will output SEGY data in files corresponding to the planned survey lines.
The output SEGY file names will be based on \fIlineroot\fP and will include
the line number starting with \fIstarline\fP, both of which are specified
using the \fB-L\fP options.  If neither \fB-O\fP nore \fB-R\fP are invoked,
the output SEGY filename (or files if a datalist is being processed) will
be the input swath filename with ".segy" appended.
.TP
.B \-R
\fIroutefile\fP
.br
This option specifies an \fBmbgrdviz\fP route file containing the intended
waypoints of the survey. If \fIroutefile\fP is specified, \fBmbextractsegy\fP
will output SEGY data in files corresponding to the planned survey lines.
The output SEGY file names will be based on \fIlineroot\fP and will include
the line number starting with \fIstarline\fP, both of which are specified
using the \fB-L\fP options.  If neither \fB-O\fP nore \fB-R\fP are invoked,
the output SEGY filename (or files if a datalist is being processed) will
be the input swath filename with ".segy" appended.
.TP
.B \-S
\fIsampleformat\fP
.br
Sets the sample format desired for use in the output SEGY file. Options include:
 	MB_SEGY_SAMPLEFORMAT_NONE           1
 	MB_SEGY_SAMPLEFORMAT_TRACE          2
 	MB_SEGY_SAMPLEFORMAT_ENVELOPE       3
 	MB_SEGY_SAMPLEFORMAT_ANALYTIC       4
.br
MB_SEGY_SAMPLEFORMAT_TRACE implies that the seismic trace is in the original,
most raw form with both positive and negative values.
MB_SEGY_SAMPLEFORMAT_ANALYTIC implies that the trace has been
been transformed from the original time series to an analytic signal containing
both real and imaginary parts. Both the real and imaginary signals
are stored in the SEGY file. MB_SEGY_SAMPLEFORMAT_ENVELOPE implies that the
analytic signal has been reduced back to a single real, positive-only envelope
signal by taking the magnitude of the real and imaginary parts at every sample.
It is important to note that this option only sets the desired sample format, and
the program may find it necessary to store the data in an alternate form. For
instance, if the user specifies MB_SEGY_SAMPLEFORMAT_TRACE or
MB_SEGY_SAMPLEFORMAT_ANALYTIC but the swath file only contains envelope data,
the data will be written in the envelope form. The default value of
MB_SEGY_SAMPLEFORMAT_NONE allows the program to choose the most appropriate
sample format.
.TP
.B \-U
\fIrangethreshold\fP
.br
If the \fB-R\fP option is specified, \fBmbextractsegy\fP breaks up the
output into files corresponding to survey lines specified in a route file.
This option sets the threshold distance in meters used to determine when
a waypoint along the route has been reached; the program considers the
next waypoint reached when the range to the waypoint becomes smaller
than \fIrangethreshold\fP and then ceases to decrease.
Default: \fIrangethreshold\fP = 25 m.
.TP
.B \-Z
\fIplotmax\fP
.br
Specifies the trace value corresponding to the maximum grayscale (black)
in the section plots. Default: \fIplotmax\fP = 50.
.TP
.B \-V
This option increases the verbosity of \fBmbextractsegy\fP, causing it
to print out messages regarding its progress to stdout.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose that one has collected a set of Reson 7k datafiles incorporating
multibeam sonar data, sidescan data, and subbottom profiler data, and
that the filenames are:
 	20040722_152111.s7k
 	20040722_154429.s7k
 	20040722_160809.s7k
.br

In order to extract the subbottom data into segy files, one can use
\fBmbextractsegy\fP on each file in turn, for example:
 	mbextractsegy -I 20040722_152111.s7k
.br
which yields the following output:
 	2527 records output to segy file 20040722_154429.s7k.segy
.br
In this command the 7k file format id of 88 is inferred from the
".7k" filename suffix.

One may also input a datalist file referencing all of the 7k files. The
contents of a datalist file (typically named datalist.mb-1) would look like:
 	20040722_152111.s7k 88
 	20040722_154429.s7k 88
 	20040722_160809.s7k 88
.br
where the second column is the data format id (see the \fBmbsystem\fP man page
for a discussion of datalist files). To operate on all the files in
a single command, use:
 	mbextractsegy -I datalist.mb-1
 which yields the following output:
 	2527 records output to segy file 20040722_154429.s7k.segy
 	2568 records output to segy file 20040722_160809.s7k.segy
 	2569 records output to segy file 20040722_163148.s7k.segy
.br
In this command the datalist format id of -1 is inferred from the
".mb-1" filename suffix.

Use of the \fB-V\fP option causes \fBmbextractsegy\fP to output information
about every tenth record written to a segy file. So:
 	mbextractsegy -I 20040722_152111.s7k -V
.br
which yields the following output:
 	2527 records output to segy file 20040722_154429.s7k.segy
.br
 	Outputting subbottom data to segy file 20040722_152111.s7k.segy
 	file:20040722_152111.s7k record:10 shot:65  2004/204 15:20:42.083 samples:8330 interval:64 usec  minmax: 0.000000 17487.244141
 	file:20040722_152111.s7k record:20 shot:75  2004/204 15:20:47.698 samples:8330 interval:64 usec  minmax: 0.000000 16525.875000
 	......... lines omitted ..........
 	file:20040722_152111.s7k record:2510 shot:2565  2004/204 15:44:05.893 samples:8330 interval:64 usec  minmax: 0.000000 17616.189453
 	file:20040722_152111.s7k record:2520 shot:2575  2004/204 15:44:11.507 samples:8330 interval:64 usec  minmax: 0.000000 31888.093750
 	2527 records output to segy file 20040722_152111.s7k.segy
.br
\fBMBextractsegy\fP also generates a "sinf" file containing statistics about the data in the segy
file 20040722_152111.s7k.segy. The contents of the sinf file 20040722_152111.s7k.segy.sinf are:
 	SEGY Data File:      20040722_152111.s7k.segy

 	File Header Info:
 	  Channels:                          1
 	  Auxiliary Channels:                0
 	  Sample Interval (usec):           64
 	  Number of Samples in Trace:     8330
 	  Trace length (sec):         0.533120
 	  Data Format:                IEEE 32 bit integer
 	  CDP Fold:                          0

 	Data Totals:
 	  Number of Traces:               2527
 	  Min Max Delta:
 	    Shot number:                    56     2582     2527
 	    Shot trace:                      1        1        1
 	    RP number:                      56     2582     2527
 	    RP trace:                        1        1        1
 	    Delay (sec):              0.000000 0.000000 0.000000
 	    Range (m):                0.000000 0.000000 0.000000
 	    Receiver Elevation (m):   -224.030000 -2.860000 -221.170000
 	    Source Elevation (m):     -224.030000 -2.860000 -221.170000
 	    Source Depth (m):         2.860000 224.030000 -221.170000
 	    Receiver Water Depth (m): 51.510000 487.670000 -436.160000
 	    Source Water Depth (m):   51.510000 487.670000 -436.160000

 	Navigation Totals:

 	  Start of Data:
 	    Time:  07 22 2004 15:20:37.029000  JD204
 	    Lon: -121.8573     Lat:   36.7755

 	  End of Data:
 	    Time:  07 22 2004 15:44:15.438000  JD204
 	    Lon: -121.8572     Lat:   36.7952

 	Limits:
 	  Minimum Longitude:    -121.8574   Maximum Longitude:    -121.8572
 	  Minimum Latitude:       36.7755   Maximum Latitude:       36.7952



.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(l), \fBmbsegyinfo\fP(l), \fBmbsegylist\fP(l), \fBmbsegygrid\fP(l),
\fBSIOSEIS\fP(http://sioseis.ucsd.edu/ )

.SH BUGS
Doesn't support all of the data formats containing subbottom or center beam
reflection data..
