.TH mblist 1 "3 June 2013" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmblist\fP - List data in swath data files.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmblist\fP [\fB-A\fP \fB-B\fP\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP
\fB-C\fP
\fB-D\fP\fIdumpmode\fP
\fB-E\fP\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP \fB-F\fP\fIformat\fP \fB-G\fP\fIdelimiter\fP
\fB-H\fP \fB-I\fP\fIinfilename\fP \fB-K\fP\fIdecimate\fP
\fB-L\fP\fIlonflip\fP \fB-M\fP[\fIstart_beam/end_beam\fP | \fBA\fP | \fBX\fP\fIpercentage\fP]
\fB-N\fP\fIstart_pixel/end_pixel\fP
\fB-O\fP\fIoutput_format\fP \fB-P\fP\fIpings\fP \fB-Q\fP
\fB-R\fP\fIwest/east/south/north\fP
\fB-S\fP\fIspeed\fP \fB-T\fP\fItimegap\fP
\fB-U\fP\fIcheck\fP \fB-V\fP \fB-W\fP
\fB-X\fP\fIoutfile\fP
\fB-Z\fP\fIsegment\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmblist\fP is a utility to list the contents of a swath
data file or files to stdout. By default, \fBmblist\fP
produces ASCII files in
spreadsheet style, with data columns separated by tabs. Alternatively,
other column delimiters can be used (\fB-G\fP option), or
the output can be binary, with each field represented
as a double precision float (\fB-A\fP option).
Output can also be in netCDF CDL (\fB-C\fP option) format,
or as a binary netCDF file (\fB-C -A\fP).
The output of
\fBmblist\fP can be piped to plotting and data analysis programs. The
option \fB-O\fP\fIoutput_format\fP can be
used to control the data types that
are sent to stdout. The default is to output a single record for
each survey ping, and for any output navigation values to reflect
the sonar or ship navigation. In this mode, any output depth,
amplitude, or sidescan values are derived from the beam and pixel
located closest to the navigation (the most vertical position under
the sonar). If the \fB-M\fP or \fB-N\fP options
are used to set specific ranges of beams or pixels to be used,
then records are output for each of the specified beams or
pixels and any navigation, depth or sidescan values output reflect
the positions and values of the specified beams or pixels.
The data input may be averaged or windowed in time
and space before it is listed.  Complete dumps of bathymetry,
amplitude, or sidescan data are possible as well.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory
.br
Alberto Malinverno
.br
  Schlumberger-Doll

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-A
.br
Causes the output to be binary (native double precision floating
point) rather than ASCII. Some
output options cannot be represented as single binary floats (e.g.
time strings and longitude or latitude broken into degrees
and minutes. These values are output as multiple fields as
appropriate.
Default: ASCII output with fields separated by tabs, or by another
delimiter specified with the \fB-G\fP option.
.TP
.B \-B
\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP
.br
This option sets the starting time for data allowed in the input data.
The \fB-E\fP option sets the ending time for data. If the
starting time is before the ending time, then any data
with a time stamp before the starting time or after the
ending time is ignored. If instead the starting time is
after the ending time, then any data between the ending
and starting time will be ignored. This scheme allows time
windowing both inside and outside a specified interval.
Default: \fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP = 1962/2/21/10/30/0.
.TP
.B \-C
.br
Causes netCDF CDL format output to be generated (see \fBncgen\fP).
When the \fB-A\fP (binary) option is also set \fBmblist\fP will call \fBncgen\fP to
convert the CDL file to a binary netCDF file (default name is \fImblist.nc\fP),
if successful the CDL file will be removed.
.TP
.B \-D
\fIdumpmode\fP
.br
Normally, the output format is controlled by the \fB-O\fP option and
the number of beams or pixels which are output is controlled by
the \fB-M\fP and \fB-N\fP options.  The \fB-D\fP option provides
a short cut for producing complete dumps of the longtitude and
latitude locations of all beams or pixels along with the
associated bathymetry, topography, amplitude, or sidescan values.
The "lon lat value" triples are often useful for input into
gridding programs (e.g. the \fBGMT\fP program \fBsurface\fP) or
other utilities. All valid (positive) values will be output, unless
the \fB-Q\fP option is used to disable value checking.
The \fIdumpmode\fP options are:
.IP
\fIdumpmode\fP = 1:  format controlled by \fB-O\fP option
.IP
\fIdumpmode\fP = 2:  longitude latitude depth
.IP
\fIdumpmode\fP = 3:  longitude latitude topography
.IP
\fIdumpmode\fP = 4:  longitude latitude amplitude
.IP
\fIdumpmode\fP = 5:  longitude latitude sidescan
.br
Use of the \fB-D\fP option supercedes the \fB-O\fP, \fB-M\fP,
and \fB-N\fP options.
Default: \fImode\fP = 1.
.TP
.B \-E
\fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP
.br
This option sets the ending time for data allowed in the input data.
The \fB-B\fP option sets the starting time for data. If the
starting time is before the ending time, then any data
with a time stamp before the starting time or after the
ending time is ignored. If instead the starting time is
after the ending time, then any data between the ending
and starting time will be ignored. This scheme allows time
windowing both inside and outside a specified interval.
Default: \fIyr/mo/da/hr/mn/sc\fP = 2062/2/21/10/30/0.
.TP
.B \-F
\fIformat\fP
.br
Sets the format for the input swath data using
\fBMBIO\fP integer format identifiers.
This program uses the \fBMBIO\fP library and will read any swath
format supported by \fBMBIO\fP. A list of the swath data formats
currently supported by \fBMBIO\fP and their identifier values
is given in the \fBMBIO\fP manual page. Default: \fIformat\fP = 11.
.TP
.B \-G
\fIdelimiter\fP
.br
Sets the character(s) used to separate output fields when ascii
columns are output. Default: tabs are used as delimiters.
.TP
.B \-H
This "help" flag cause the program to print out a description
of its operation and then exit immediately.
.TP
.B \-I
\fIfilename\fP
.br
Sets the input filename. If \fIformat\fP > 0 (set with the
\fB-F\fP option) then the swath data contained in \fIinfile\fP
is read and processed. If \fIformat\fP < 0, then \fIinfile\fP
is assumed to be an ascii file containing a list of the input swath
data files to be processed and their formats.  The program will read
the data in each one of these files.
In the \fIinfile\fP file, each
data file should be followed by a data format identifier, e.g.:
 	datafile1 11
 	datafile2 24
.br
This program uses the \fBMBIO\fP library and will read any swath
format supported by \fBMBIO\fP. A list of the swath data formats
currently supported by \fBMBIO\fP and their identifier values
is given in the \fBMBIO\fP manual page.
Default: \fIinfile\fP = "datalist.mb-1".
.TP
.B \-K
\fIdecimate\fP
.br
Sets the decimation of the output data. By default (i.e. \fIdecimate\fP=1),
every available data record is output. If \fIdecimate\fP>1, then only
every "\fIdecimate\fP"th record will be output. Default: \fIdecimate\fP=1.
.TP
.B \-L
\fIlonflip\fP
.br
Sets the range of the longitude values returned.
If \fIlonflip\fP=-1 then the longitude values will be in
the range from -360 to 0 degrees. If \fIlonflip\fP=0
then the longitude values will be in
the range from -180 to 180 degrees. If \fIlonflip\fP=1
then the longitude values will be in
the range from 0 to 360 degrees.
Default: \fIlonflip\fP = 0.
.TP
.B \-M
\fIstart_beam/end_beam\fP or \fBA\fP or \fBX\fP\fIexcludepercent\fP
.br
Determines the range of bathymetry beams for which records will be output.
If this option is used, then any longitude and latitude values output
will reflect the positions of individual beams on the seafloor.
If \fB-MA\fP is given, then a record
will be output for each valid beam. If \fIstart_beam/end_beam\fP
is specified, then records will be output only for beams in this
range. Beam numbers start with zero on the port side.
If \fB-MX\fP\fIexcludepercent\fP is given, then records will be output
for each valid, non-excluded beam where the outer \fIexcludepercent\fP
percentage of beams are excluded.
The default is to output a single record for each ping
in which longitude and latitude values reflect
the sonar navigation, the depth,
topography, and amplitude values reflect the valid beam
nearest to vertical, and the sidescan value reflects the pixel
nearest to vertical.
.TP
.B \-N
\fIstart_pixel/end_pixel\fP or \fIA\fP
.br
Determines the range of sidescan pixels for which records will be output.
If \fIstart_pixel/end_pixel\fP
is specified, then records will be output only for pixels in this
range. Pixel numbers start with zero on the port side. The default is
to not output records associated with sidescan pixels. Instead,
the default is to output a single record for each ping
in which longitude and latitude values reflect
the sonar navigation, the depth,
topography, and amplitude values reflect the valid beam
nearest to vertical, and the sidescan value reflects the pixel
nearest to vertical. If \fB-N\fP\fIA\fP is given, then a record
will be output for all sidescan pixels.
.TP
.B \-O
\fIoutput_format\fP
.br
Determines the form of the output. \fIOutput_format\fP is a string composed
of one or more of the following characters:
.IP
\fB/\fP
special character: this causes the value
indicated by the next character to be  inverted. This applies only to simple
numeric values such as depth and
heading and not to values like time
strings or positions with hemisphere
characters.
.IP
\fB-\fP
special character: this causes the value
indicated by the next character to be
multiplied by -1. This applies only
to simple numeric values such as
depth and heading and not to values
like time strings or positions with
hemisphere characters.
.IP
\fB=\fP
special character: this causes the value
indicated by the next character to
derive from the port-most non-null
beam or pixel. This applies only
to numeric values associated with
beams or pixels such as depth, longitude,
or latitude.
.IP
\fB+\fP
special character: this causes the value
indicated by the next character to
derive from the starboard-most non-null
beam or pixel. This applies only
to numeric values associated with
beams or pixels such as depth, longitude,
or latitude.
.IP
\fBA\fP
for apparent seafloor crosstrack slope
(degrees from horizontal with positive
slopes dipping toward port.) Calculated
by fitting a line to the the
bathymetry data of each ping.
.IP
\fBa\fP
for apparent seafloor crosstrack slope
(degrees from horizontal with positive
slopes dipping toward port.) Calculated
by interpolation for each beam or pixel.
.IP
\fBB\fP
for amplitude
.IP
\fBb\fP
for sidescan
.IP
\fBC\fP
for sonar altitude above the bottom (m)
.IP
\fBc\fP
for sonar tranducer depth (m)
.IP
\fBD\fP
for bathymetry acrosstrack distance (m)
.IP
\fBd\fP
for sidescan acrosstrack distance (m)
.IP
\fBE\fP
for bathymetry alongtrack distance (m)
.IP
\fBe\fP
for sidescan alongtrack distance (m)
.IP
\fBG\fP
for flat bottom grazing angle (degrees)
.IP
\fBg\fP
for grazing angle using seafloor slope (degrees)
.IP
\fBH\fP
for heading (degrees)
.IP
\fBh\fP
for course made good (degrees)
.IP
\fBJ\fP
for a time string (yyyy jd hh mm ss.ssssss)
where jd is the day of the year
.IP
\fBj\fP
for a time string (yyyy jd dm ss.ssssss)
where jd is the day of the year
and dm is the minute of the day
.IP
\fBL\fP
for cumulative along-track distance (km)
.IP
\fBl\fP
for cumulative along-track distance (m)
.IP
\fBM\fP
for unix (epoch) time in decimal seconds since 1/1/70 00:00:00
.IP
\fBm\fP
for time in decimal seconds since first record
.IP
\fBN\fP
for ping count
.IP
\fBP\fP  for pitch in degrees
.IP
\fBp\fP  for draft in meters
.IP
\fBQ\fP  for bottom detection type as letter (A=amplitude, P=phase, U=unknown)
.IP
\fBq\fP  for bottom detection type as number (1=amplitude, 2=phase, 0=unknown)
.IP
\fBR\fP  for roll in degrees
.IP
\fBr\fP  for heave in meters
.IP
\fBS\fP  for speed (km/hr)
.IP
\fBs\fP  for speed made good (km/hr)
.IP
\fBT\fP  for a time string (yyyy/mm/dd/hh/mm/ss)
.IP
\fBt\fP  for a time string (yyyy mm dd hh mm ss)
.IP
\fBU\fP  for unix time in integer seconds since 1/1/70 00:00:00
.IP
\fBu\fP  for time in integer seconds since first record
.IP
\fBV\fP  for ping interval (decimal seconds)
.IP
\fBX\fP  for longitude (decimal degrees)
.IP
\fBx\fP  for longitude (degrees + decimal minutes + E/W)
.IP
\fBY\fP  for latitude (decimal degrees)
.IP
\fBy\fP  for latitude (degrees + decimal minutes + N/S)
.IP
\fBZ\fP  for topography (positive upwards) (m)
.IP
\fBz\fP  for depth (positive downwards) (m)
.IP
\fB#\fP  for beam or pixel number
.IP
\fB .\fP
special character: this causes the next character to be
interpretted from the following list rather than the above list.
These allow access to raw values in format specific form and may
not be supported by all formats.
.IP
\fB .A\fP  Amplitude (backscatter) in dB (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .a\fP  Mean absorption coefficient in dB/km (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam some versions only)
.IP
\fB .B\fP  Normal incidence backscatter in dB (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .b\fP  Oblique backscatter in dB (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .c\fP  Mean backscatter, one value per ping (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .d\fP  Beam depression angle (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .F\fP  Filename
.IP
\fB .f\fP  File format
.IP
\fB .G\fP  Start of TVG ramp in samples (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .g\fP  Stop of TVG ramp in samples (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .L\fP  Transmit pulse length (usec) (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .l\fP  Transmit pulse length (sec)
.IP
\fB .M\fP  Sounder mode (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .N\fP  Ping number according to sounder (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .p\fP  Raw sidescan pixels in dB (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only).
May be preceded by a number to give the first n pixels (NaN padded) of the beam,
for example\fB .30p\fP will give the first 30 sidescan pixels of each beam.
.IP
\fB .R\fP  Range in samples (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .r\fP  Sampling rate in Hz (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .S\fP  Number of raw sidescan pixels per ping (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .s\fP  Number of raw sidescan pixels per beam (formats 56 & 67 - Simrad multibeam only)
.IP
\fB .T\fP  Transmit gain (dB)
.IP
\fB .t\fP  Receive gain (dB)

.br
Default \fIoutput_format\fP = \fBYXLZ\fP (latitude, longitude, cumulative
along-track distance, and depth).
.TP
.B \-P
\fIpings\fP
.br
Sets the ping averaging of the input data. If \fIpings\fP = 1, then
no ping averaging is performed. If \fIpings\fP > 0, then
that number of input pings will be averaged to produce one output
ping.  If \fIpings\fP = 0, then the ping averaging will automatically
be done so that the along-track ping spacing is equal to the across-track
beam spacing.
Default: \fIpings\fP = 1 (no ping averaging).
.TP
.B \-Q
Disables value checking for validity (only positive bathymetry,
amplitude, and sidescan values are valid).  This allows dumps
of all of the data, including null or flagged beams and pixels.
The flagged values are output without change. Null values are
output as zero. This option is equivalent to \fB-U\fP\fI2\fP.
.TP
.B \-R
\fIwest/east/south/north\fP
.br
Sets the longitude and latitude bounds within which swath
data will be read. Only the data which lies within these bounds will
be read.
Default: \fIwest\fP=-360, east\fI=360\fP, \fIsouth\fP=-90, \fInorth\fP=90.
.TP
.B \-S
\fIspeed\fP
.br
Sets the minimum speed in km/hr (5.5 kts ~ 10 km/hr) allowed in
the input data; pings associated with a smaller ship speed will not be
copied. Default: \fIspeed\fP = 0.
.TP
.B \-T
\fItimegap\fP
.br
Sets the maximum time gap in minutes between adjacent pings allowed before
the data is considered to have a gap. Default: \fItimegap\fP = 1.
.TP
.B \-U
\fIcheck\fP
.br
Sets the manner in which \fBmblist\fP handles flagged and null
bathymetry, amplitude, and sidescan values. By default, \fBmblist\fP
omits lines of output if they contain flagged or null values. This
default corresponds to \fIcheck\fP = 0.
If \fIcheck\fP = 1, then flagged values will be output
unchanged and null values will be ignored.
If \fIcheck\fP = 2,
then flagged values will be output unchanged and null values
will be output as zero (This corresponds to the \fB-Q\fP option).
If \fIcheck\fP = 3, then flagged values will be output unchanged
and null values will be output as "NaN".
If \fIcheck\fP = 4, then flagged values and null values
will be output as "NaN".
.TP
.B \-V
Normally, \fBmblist\fP works "silently" without outputting
anything to the stderr stream.  If the
\fB-V\fP flag is given, then \fBmblist\fP works in a "verbose" mode and
outputs the program version being used and all error status messages.
.TP
.B \-W
Normally, \fBmblist\fP outputs bathymetry and across and along
track distances in meters.  If the
\fB-W\fP flag is given, then \fBmblist\fP outputs these values
in feet.
.TP
.B \-X
\fIoutfile\fP
.br
Normally, \fBmblist\fP outputs to stdout.
If the \fB-X\fP flag is given, then \fBmblist\fP creates a new file
\fIoutfile\fP and outputs to it.
An output file must be specified if a netCDF file (\fB-C -A\fP) is required.
.TP
.B \-Z
\fIsegment\fP
.br
Causes the ascii output of different input swath files
(e.g. when a datalist is specified with the \fB-I\fP option)
to be separated by lines with \fIsegment\fP. If \fIsegment\fP
is a single character, then the output is a multiple segment
file of the sort accepted by the \fBGMT\fP program \fBpsxy\fP.
This option only works with ascii output, and is thus disabled
when the \fB-A\fP option is specified. The most common usage
is \fB-Z\fP\I>\fP.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose one wishes to obtain a centerbeam profile
from a raw Hydrosweep file
(format 21) in a region between 105W and 103W
longitude and between 10S and 8S latitude. The following will suffice:

	mblist -Iinfile.mb21 -F21 -R-105/-103/-10/-8 -OLz

The output will be as follows:

 	0.000  4378
 	0.085  4370
 	0.166  4370
 	0.247  4351
 	0.330  4353
 	0.407  4337
 	0.492  4334
 	0.571  4323
 	0.651  4316
 	0.737  4307
 	.....

Here the depth values will correspond to the beam in each
ping which is located closest to vertical under the ship.

Suppose one wishes instead to obtain time, heading and speed data
in the same file from 8AM to 9AM on August 10 1991. The following
is appropriate:

 	mblist -Iinfile.mb21 -F21 -B1991/8/10/8/0/0
 	-E1991/8/10/9/0/0 -OTHS

The output will be as follows:

 	1991/08/10/08/00/05     283.9   41.29
 	1991/08/10/08/00/19     283.4   20.36
 	1991/08/10/08/00/33     285.1   20.36
 	1991/08/10/08/00/48     286.7   20.09
 	1991/08/10/08/01/02     284.9   20.08
 	1991/08/10/08/01/16     285.2   20.02
 	1991/08/10/08/01/44     284.2   20.20
 	1991/08/10/08/02/12     283.7   20.50
 	1991/08/10/08/02/41     283.6   20.75
 	1991/08/10/08/03/09     285.1   21.19
 	.....

Suppose one wishes a data series with along-track distance,
topography and across-track distance of beam number 15 for the same file
and time limits as above:

 	mblist -Iinfile.mb21 -F21 -B1991/8/10/7/0/0
 	-E1991/8/10/9/0/0 -OLZD -M15/15

The output will be as follows:

 	  0.000  4510   -1704
 	  0.172  4494   -1692
 	  0.260  4486   -1689
 	  0.343  4471   -1683
 	  0.427  4491   -1691
 	  0.506  4490   -1690
 	  0.591  4478   -1686
 	  0.676  4505   -1697
 	  0.763  4488   -1695
 	  0.849  4495   -1699
 	  .....

Supppose one wishes to obtain longitude, latitude, and
depth at the centerbeam as x-y-z data for the same region as in the
first example:

 	mblist -Iinfile.mb21 -F21 -R-105/-103/-10/-8 -OXYz

The output will be as follows:

 	-103.000236      -9.577439       4378
 	-103.000943      -9.577229       4370
 	-103.001651      -9.577020       4370
 	-103.002372      -9.576794       4351
 	-103.003041      -9.576584       4353
 	-103.003771      -9.576338       4337
 	-103.004456      -9.576105       4334
 	-103.005153      -9.575895       4323
 	-103.005903      -9.575679       4316
 	-103.006586      -9.575449       4307
 	.....

Suppose one wishes to obtain a dump of longitude, latitude, and
depth for all good beams in a Hydrosweep data file. There are two ways to
obtain this output. One can explicitly specify the output format as
\fB-O\fP\fIXYz\fP and the output beams as \fB-M\fP\fI0/58\fP:

 	mblist -Iinfile.mb21 -F21 -OXYz -M0/58

or one can use the equivalent \fB-D\fP\fI2\fP shortcut:

	mblist -Iinfile.mb21 -F21 -D2

Either way, the output is as follows:

 	-49.296454	  12.180552	  4866
 	-49.296695	  12.178668	  4858
 	-49.296923	  12.176893	  4855
 	-49.297123	  12.175341	  4877
 	-49.297319	  12.173808	  4895
 	-49.297536	  12.172122	  4879
 	-49.297744	  12.170498	  4865
 	-49.297909	  12.169216	  4904
 	-49.298100	  12.167727	  4899
 	-49.298299	  12.166175	  4871
 	-49.298476	  12.164803	  4873
 	-49.298639	  12.163530	  4891
 	.....

Suppose one wishes to obtain a dump of longitude, latitude, and
depth for all beams, valid or not, in a Hydrosweep data file.
The approach is the same as the preceding example, except that
the \fB-Q\fP option is used to disable validity checking of
beam values. One can explicitly specify the output format as
\fB-O\fP\fIXYz\fP and the output beams as \fB-M\fP\fI0/58\fP:

 	mblist -Iinfile.mb21 -F21 -OXYz -M0/58 -Q

or one can use the equivalent \fB-D\fP\fI2\fP shortcut:

	mblist -Iinfile.mb21 -F21 -D2 -Q

Either way, the output includes both zero beams (no data) and
beams with negative depths (flagged as bad data):

 	-49.301094	  12.144409	     0
 	-49.301094	  12.144409	     0
 	-49.296454	  12.180552	  4866
 	-49.296695	  12.178668	  4858
 	-49.296923	  12.176893	  4855
 	-49.297123	  12.175341	  4877
 	-49.297319	  12.173808	  4895
 	-49.297536	  12.172122	  4879
 	-49.297744	  12.170498	  4865
 	-49.297909	  12.169216	  4904
 	-49.298100	  12.167727	  4899
 	-49.298100	  12.167727	 -4144
 	-49.298299	  12.166175	  4871
 	-49.298476	  12.164803	  4873
 	-49.298639	  12.163530	  4891
 	.....

Finally, suppose one wishes to obtain a dump of longitude, latitude, and
amplitude for all good beams in a Hydrosweep data file. There are two ways to
obtain this output. One can explicitly specify the output format as
\fB-O\fP\fIXYB\fP and the output beams as \fB-M\fP\fI0/58\fP:

 	mblist -Iinfile.mb21 -F21 -OXYB -M0/58

or one can use the equivalent \fB-D\fP\fI4\fP shortcut:

	mblist -Iinfile.mb21 -F21 -D4

Either way, the output is as follows:

 	-49.296454	  12.180552	    13
 	-49.296695	  12.178668	    17
 	-49.296923	  12.176893	    16
 	-49.297123	  12.175341	    14
 	-49.297319	  12.173808	    17
 	-49.297536	  12.172122	     9
 	-49.297744	  12.170498	    14
 	-49.297909	  12.169216	    15
 	-49.298100	  12.167727	    12
 	-49.298299	  12.166175	    12
 	-49.298476	  12.164803	    28
 	-49.298639	  12.163530	    14
 	.....

Suppose one wishes to examine the number of raw sidescan pixels in Simrad EM1002 data file
and the first 5 pixels of each beam:

	mblist -i 0044_20000425_093808.mb57 -MA -ON#.S.s.5p

The output will be as follows:

     1       0           11278     286      -31.5   -32.0   -32.0   -32.5   -33.0
     1       1           11278     133      -34.5   -34.5   -34.5   -34.5   -33.5
     1       2           11278     142      -40.0   -40.0   -40.0   -40.0   -40.0
     1       3           11278     139      -40.0   -40.5   -40.5   -40.5   -40.5
     1       4           11278     159      -39.5   -38.5   -38.5   -39.0   -38.5
     ...
     1      54           11278     1        -27.00  NaN     NaN     NaN     NaN
     .....

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(l), \fBmbinfo\fP(l)

.SH BUGS
\fBmblist\fP is not able to list all of the information available in some
swath data formats.
