.TH mbnavadjustmerge 1 "28 May 2014" "MB-System 5.0" "MB-System 5.0"
.SH NAME
\fBmbnavadjustmerge\fP \- Tool to merge two MBnavadjust projects,
either adding one to the first or outputting a new project combining
both existing projects.

.SH VERSION
Version 5.0

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmbnavadjustmerge\fP --input=project-base --input=project-add --output=project-output --verbose

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBMBnavadjustmerge\fP is a command line program that merges two
existing \fBMBnavadjust\fP projects. If the user specifies two
input projects and no output project, then the second project is
added to the first. If an output project is specified, then the
two projects are merged and the new combined project is output.

\fBMBnavadjust\fP is an interactive graphical program used to
adjust swath data navigation by matching bathymetric features
in overlapping and crossing swaths. The primary purpose of
\fBmbnavadjust\fP is to eliminate relative navigational errors in swath
data obtained from poorly navigated sonars.

.SH AUTHORSHIP
David W. Caress (caress@mbari.org)
.br
  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute
.br
Dale N. Chayes (dale@ldeo.columbia.edu)
.br
  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \--input=project-base
.B \--input=project-add
This option defines either of the input, existing \fBMBnavadjust\fP
projects. A project may be defined by a relative or absolute path
to the project *.nvh file or the project *.dir directory. The first
use of \fB--input\fP defines the base input project, and the second
defines the add input project. In the case where the \fB--output\fP
option is used to define an output project, the two input projects
will both be copied to the new output project (\fIproject-base\fP 
first followed by \fIproject-add\fP). If the \fBoutput\fP option is
not specified, then the \fIproject-base\fP project is used as the
output, and the \fIproject-add\fP project is added on to the
\fIproject-base\fP project.
.TP
.B \--output=project-output
This option defines the new \fBMBnavadjust output project. The two
input projects will both be copied to the new output project
(\fIproject-base\fP  first followed by \fIproject-add\fP).
If the \fBoutput\fP option is
not specified, then the \fIproject-base\fP project is used as the
output, and the \fIproject-add\fP project is added on to the
\fIproject-base\fP project.
.TP
.B \--verbose
This option increases the verbosity of \fBMBnavadjustmerge\fP, which
means that more information than by default is output to the stderr stream of the
shell.

.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose you have two AUV survey missions, 20140515m1 and 10140515m2, that overlap
slightly. If you have used \fBMBnavadjust\fP to adjust the navigation of the
two missions separately, you can use \fBMBnavadjustmerge\fP to merge the two
\fBMBnavadjust\fP projects into a single new project without losing any of the
ties made between overlapping sections in the existing projects. If the two
existing projects are named "Navadjust20140515m1" and "Navadjust20140515m2",
respectively, then there exist project files with a ".nvh" suffix and project
directories with a ".dir" suffix. To create a new \fBMBnavadjust\fP project
combining the two existing projects, the following will suffice:
.br
     mbnavadjustmerge --input=Navadjust20140515m1.nvh \
                      --input=Navadjust20140515m1.nvh \
                      --output=Navadjust20140515All.nvh
.br
The new project Navadjust20140515All can be opened and analyzed further using
\fBMBnavadjust\fP. When opening the new project, the user should first solve
for a comprehensive navigation adjustment model by selecting the <Action->Invert Navigation>
menu item, and then find the crossings between the two previously separate missions
by selecting the <Action->Check For New Crossings> menu item

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmbsystem\fP(1), \fBmbio\fP(1), \fBmbprocess\fP(1),
\fBmbnavadjust\fP(1), \fBmbset\fP(1)

.SH BUGS
It used to be too new to be bulletproof, now its too complicated to be bulletproof.
Good luck.
